SERIAL_NR	ID	TITLE	PAGE	SENDER_RAW	SALUTATION	SIGN-OFF	DATELINE	DATE	NOTES	FOOTNOTE	TEXT	CHAPTER	LANGUAGE	N_WORDS	ADDRESSEE_RAW	ADDRESSLINE	POSTSCRIPT	YEAR	SENDER_CLEANED	ADDRESSEE_CLEANED	GENDER_SENDER	GENDER_ADDRESSEE	SENDER_BIRTH_YEAR	SENDER_GENERATION	ADDRESSEE_BIRTH_YEAR	ADDRESSEE_GENERATION	CONNECTION_TYPE	SENDER_IS_OLDER	ADDRESSEE_IS_OLDER	SENDER_OVER_40	ADDRESSEE_OVER_40	AGE_GAP	AGE_GAP_OVER_20	SENDER-ADDRESSEE_PAIR
j_1	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 60	[1] Samuel Jeake senior to Mrs Wenborn, 24 March 1639/40. Copy letter with heading.	23	Samuel Jeake	Godly friend	Your poore friend lately robbed of his chiefest jewell	"Rie March 24"""	1639/40	"My Letter to Mrs Wenborn of Mayfield who before was the wife of Mr John
Wilmshurst*"	"* Letter refers to the death of Samuel Senior's mother, Anne Jeake neé Peerson.
""Psalm 102 is 'A prayer for the afflicted, when he is overwhelmed, and poureth out his complaint
before the Lord'.
Psalms 36: 59,
'Thy mercy, O Lord, is in the heavens; and thy faithfulness reaches unto the
clouds. Thy righteousness is like the great mountains; thy judgments are a great deep: O Lord
thou preservest man and beast. How excellent is thy loving kindness, O God! Therefore the
children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. They shall be abundantly satisfied
with the fatness of thy house: and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures. For
with thee is the fountain of life: in thy light shall we see light'."	"My Letter to Mrs Wenborn of Mayfield who before was the wife of Mr John
Wilmshurst*

Godly friend

You may thinke me too bold in presuming to present these confused lines
unto your view, which will but trouble you to read but more trouble to me to
write in regard of the old friendship & acquaintance betweene you & my
mother having now this opportunity could not but acquaint you with that
which I wish rather you had beene an eye witness of, even the death of my
dearest friend under God. It is now .22. weekes ago she finished her course,
she sickened first like an Ague, upon the 29"" of October being Tuesday, on
the wednesday she went out to Goodman Millers to repetition, the thursday
the fit tooke her againe & held her as before, & on the friday she went out to
a buriall which was the last time she was forth. On the Saterday she was tooke
againe & so it held her all night & the next day being Sabbath she was very
sicke, yet in the Afternoone she rose, but still continuing sicke, on the Monday
as she lay, she read the .102. Psalme,"" for the Lord seemed to hide himselfe
from her, but he did not forsake her over long, in that night hee revealed himselfe
to her in a sweet manner, so that her bruised bones leapt for joy, in the
morning she revealed to us what a sweet night she had enjoyed, & how the
Lord had let out him selfe to her from these words of the .36. Psalme 5.6.7.8.9.
verses"" and that now she had found by experience what we have yet but by
promise, that heaviness may endure for a night but joy cometh in the morning.
Continuing sicke we sought to the Physician, this weeke like a Saint, her
words ministered grace to the hearers, & she was perswaded she should dye
on the Sabbath & that having done a weekes work she should enter into his
rest yet God otherwise prevented & that Satan might take his last farewell of
troubling her tooke occasion hereby to molest her but at length the Lord
revealed himselfe to her more fully then before, so that about the middle of the
weeke she told us she was as full of joy as her heart could hold. The Lord had
now afflicted her with a sore mouth, which much troubled her to speake, about
the latter end of the weeke we had good hope of her recovery, but God ordered
it better for her gaine though for our losse, on the saterday night & Sabbath
following she could take downe nothing but beere & suger with a feather & on
the monday & tuesday she waxing worse & worse, we had little hope of life left
in her, on the Wednesday being the .20"". day of November about .4. a clocke in
the afternoone she sweetly yielded up her soule into her Fathers hands, catching
up her hands together uttered these words Come Lord but what more could not
be heard. Thus as you had acquaintance of her in her life, you are acquainted
with a true relation of her death, that you may rejoyce with her & weepe with
me, & that God to whom alone belong the issues of life & death helpe us to
glorifie him in either of both conditions. So praieth

Your poore friend lately robbed of his chiefest jewell

Samuel Jeake
Rie March 24""
1639/40"	A ‘good death’	ENGLISH	592				1640	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	MRS WENBORN	MALE	FEMALE	1623	1600-1640	UNK	UNK	FRIEND	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""MRS WENBORN"""
j_2	ESRO FRE 4223 fos. 61-4	"[2] Exchange of letters between Samuel Jeake senior and John Coulton withexplanatory heading. Original letter from Coulton dated 20 May 1641. Copy
 letter from Samuel senior, undated."	24	"John Coulton
Sa: Jeake"	Dearely beloved	"Soe praieth your unworthy friend
What ever from my pen doeth fall
Oh lord take thou the glory of all
Sometime your loved Sometime
your loathed"	"Rey May 20"" 1641"		"1640. When Mr John Harrison was minister at Rye, one M. M. had a bastard
& in her lying in being dangerously ill was praied for in the publique congregation,
also old Mrs Anne Threele as I minde or another professed papist was
buried & in the doing of either my tender yeares"" & apprehensions tooke
offense being then under the ministry of the Church of England as so called
this occasioned me to say something of my dislike and the same misreported
to John Coulton he sent me the following Letter May 20"" 1641 to which I
returned him this Answer."	"*Samuel would have been seventeen in 1640.
* Matthew 5: 44, 'But I say unto you. Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to
them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you'.
""Jeremiah 29: 7, 'And seek the peace of the city whither I have cause you to be carried away
captives, and pray unto the Lord for it: for in the peace thereof shall ye have peace'.
*T Samuel 12: 19, 'And all the people said unto Samuel. Pray for thy servants unto the Lord thy
God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king'.
* Acts 7: 60, 'And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice. Lord, lay not this sin to their
charge. And when he had said this, he fell asleep'.
Psalms 2: 89,
'Ask of me and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance and the
uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron: thou
shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel'.
*Do thy worst.
Galatians 6: 1, Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such
an one in the spirit of meekness: considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted.
*""Matthew 18: 15, Moreover if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault
between thee and him alone: if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother.
7 As fn. 30.
""Isaiah 14: 48,
'That thou shalt take up this proverb against the king of Babylon, and say, How
hath the oppressor ceased! The golden city ceased! The Lord hath broken the staff of the wicked,
and the sceptre of the rulers. He who smote the people in wrath with a continual stroke, he that
ruled the nations in anger, is persecuted, and none hindreth. The whole earth is at rest, and is
quiet: they break forth into singing'.
*1 Timothy 5: 20, 'Them that sin rebuke before all, that others also may fear'.
""Galatians 3: 11, 'But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is evident: for, the
just shall live by faith'."	"1640. When Mr John Harrison was minister at Rye, one M. M. had a bastard
& in her lying in being dangerously ill was praied for in the publique congregation,
also old Mrs Anne Threele as I minde or another professed papist was
buried & in the doing of either my tender yeares"" & apprehensions tooke
offense being then under the ministry of the Church of England as so called
this occasioned me to say something of my dislike and the same misreported
to John Coulton he sent me the following Letter May 20"" 1641 to which I
returned him this Answer.

Dearely beloved

Unto you I write (with this apelation Beloved) Grace, mercy, and peace be
unto you; from God our father and from our Lord Jesus Christ. The motive
induceing my pen to scrible these few lines unto you is notoriouse and very
urgent to any honest hart at the first riseing of this storme, I had well hoped
a strong gale of patience would have blowen it over, and those whisperings
thatt are now soe curant amongst you would have beene killed in the shell
butt my patience can hold noe longer, and soe you have compelled me if any
thing be nott to your compelatary motion thanke your selves and excuse him
thatt dare nott now butt acuse you, least guilt of selfe violente should ly upon
my selfe: neither have you stayed heare butt soe great Caracters have you
written them in, thatt he that runs may read it: and I thatt had thought to
have prest my pen for silent service must now stepp forth in a [word illegible]
defence to releave my selfe againest your calumniations which now foloweth,
I shall sume them up, they are the fo[llowing]

That I hold and mentione dangerouse erours, before ignorante people to
deceive them, butt if it weare before my match I would be delte with well
inough: (and they are these) as that Mr Harrison did well in praying for the
woman falen into the scandalous sine of fornication, when shee sent her bill
to the congregation also that I mentione thatt it was well done in him to use
the word (deare sister) at the buriall of the Romane Catholique that I have
medled with one of the cheefest of the Towne which I had best lett aloane,
least it be worse for me then I am aware of.

That it is become a wonder unto you thatt I am sufered to be in the Towne
and nott rather to live with my wife as a man of knowledge.

That you wonder thatt mother Renard will sufer me to use her house soe
much and will nott reprove me for these things you have amongst you transferred
that eternall ministeriall dignitie, atending your owne pastour: (and
that unto me undiservedly) in these words (thatt I was more able in in gifts
then Mr Harison wish my that he could pray as well as I can doe which I
utterly disclaime, thus I have summed by the Cheefe [word illegible] me laine
in a succinct way to give you some short answer.

For the first obiection I scorne to deceive the simple or to delude the
ignorant by overpowering them with knowledg butt bring me before whome
you please what ever I have said, I shall nott feare to justifie whatt I said; soe
long as I have one drop of blood in my vaines: therefore you utter a dareing
falacy againe indesence of Mr Harison praying for the woman I spoke whatt
I thought on it, and now doe positively afirme it before whome you please,
and to whome you will, that he did well in it and had comitted a great sinne
if he had nott prayed for her, therefore I produce these scriptures read them
your selfe, It is both commanded and practised as a duty in the word of God
as a rule for us to walke by, it is commanded in Math: 5: 44,"" Jer: 29: 7° soe
it is practised by the people of God also 1 Sam: 12: 19""' very pertinent to the
purpose as will appeare if you examine these texts with a curious eie soe to
this purpose is that of Steven, Acts 7: 60° these are [word illegible] for the
[word illegible] of such a cleare truth as this is soe thatt I hope you will nott
deny this seing it carieth maiesty from heaven with it, and I suppose I need
nott be ashamed to mentaine the truth, nott onely before weake Christians,
but also the strongest that are.

Also for his using the word (deare Sister) it was nott unlawfull as I
conceive, for first she was a deare sister by creation, we had all one father by
creation soe she was a sister, again she was a sister by profession, she professed
Jesus Christ, and also she was a sister by Baptisme, sow (as I can prove)
she was baptised into the church and as yet never cutt of by noe censure of
the church therefore deare sister also she was deare in regard of the sufficiency
of the meritt of Christs death that was ofered for the elect, and that
unto salutation; for the wicked that soe he might judge them, as psalme 2: 8
verse aske of me and I shall give the the [sic] heathen for thy Inheritance and
the out most parts of the earth and thou shalt bruse them with a rod of Iron
soe much for that obiection.

The secondeth foloweth I answer for my medleing with great ones, I feare
Not to give an account when ever I am Called unto it I that know I may nott
curse the king in my chamber, I that know the apostle recons it by far a grand
imposture to speake evell of dignities, it weare grosse impietie in me to fall
thus grosely, and if you lett me butt have the conceite of an hypocrite in your
head, you may well know it is nott the way to gaine creditt to my selfe, butt
ndeed I have alwayes beene soe wary of speaking evell of honest dignities
that I dare nott entertaine the least irreverent thought and whatt sover our
evell envieing Christians doe report, whose glory and practise it is to run
prateing from house to house to heare and tell (as I by experience know some)
yet what danger soever may come to me I pas nott, because if I doe suffer I
canott sufer as a delinquent and lett me speake to you Samuell I hope you will
nott believe it, but yet soe far am I from feareing whatt I have said or done
that in stead of crying petavi, I rather say facere pesimus"" but I hope I shall
nott have cause to feare any such tryall I have done with this also.
To the third particular I answer it is nott convenient for me to write the
reason of my being absent from my wife neither would my sheete containe it
yett as you are a Christian and as you are an unquestionable believer in my
opinion, I hold my selfe bound to signifie to you thatt it is nott oute of any
dislike each of other, we live apart: butt onely for some reasons which if you be
curious to know when you and I meet I shall lay them downe to your satisfaction,
I hope; and tell me Samuell what hurte have I done in your Towne sure I
first know it speake plaine I have prayed for the peace and prosperity of it,
whether they have beene answered or noe that must be (for the most of them
both to you and me) counsell or at least a secrett not to be [word illegible] I have
spent my time if it fell to my lot to doe good not onely to my selfe but others I
have undergone many hot thunderbolts amongst you, troubles doe surround
me dayly from abroad, and what out with day by contestings and a man of
temptations which with sorow I am faine now to boast of unto you own of
myne infirmities, and why you would have one sent out of the Towne I know
nott I am sory thatt the saints are weary of me for wicked men it is noe nuse to
heare there rebylenys both of you and me, and liveing and the dead butt you to
be weary of me toucheth me verie much butt noe marvell sometimes I am a
burthen to my selfe, and yet if you know any course or way to have me out spare
nott however this I canott butt take as an affliction sent of God to weed out
some hurt, oh that I may make a hapie use of it soe much for that.

For the 4"" thing I have nott much to say to it, it is rather bent upon her
(whoe as I have heard since I began this letter) hath beene the [word lost] of
this storme, god grant I may make a hapie use of it soe I leave that and her
too worse then I though to have done.

The last is something worse then the rest, for your comparsisons betweene
Mr Harison and my selfe, that I was more able then he for discourse and
prayer, I doe nott aprove of it butt doe protest in the presence of God I desire
nott for to be accounted neither Doe I believe it to be true in part or in whole,
whatt shall I say, I utterly disclaime it I say noe more onely dearely beloved
had you seene these faults in me this tard was not the way to reclame me, in
whispering behind my backe noe Samuell these rather stur up wrath and envy,
and eyell surmises, butt our saviour layes downe another way 6 Gall 1** Math
18"" 15° which course if you take what [word illegible] my time, when you se
me fall, lett me nott be [word illegible] then lett the righteous smite me thatt
shall be good for me, soe shall nott my head be broken I shall make prayers
for you, both now, and ever, while time lasts to me, or I to it and you eternised
in the heavens.
Soe praieth your unworthy friend
John Coulton
Rey May 20"" 1641
What ever from my pen doeth fall
Oh lord take thou the glory of all

Goodman Coulton

I salute you, I perceive I am growne odious in your sight and become very
obnoxious to you, by reason of some false accusations & calumnious aspersions
cast on me by some that are seeming friends onely. I have now received
your Letter, wherein you charge me with divers & severall false positions, at
which I marvaile but I pray expect not such a circumspect answer as if I had
learned the [words struck out] art to comprehend much matter in a few lines,
or as if I had a helper to instruct & teach me, yet thinke not that it shall
altogether die in silence when as for what I spoke I know how to answere if I
goe awry teach me & I will learne, raise me to understand where in I have
erred.

First you impute to me, that I should report you hold and maintaine

langerous errors before ignorant people &tc. to notifie to you the words that

then said in every particular as neere as I can remember (speaking the truth
in Christ before whose dreadfull tribunall I must give accompt as of all my
words & workes, so of this also whether they be good or evill) were these, that
some of your Reasons to uphold praying for the Fornicator, & the words,
Deare Sister, at the buriall of the Papist were very weake.

And now to insist a little larger on it, you would go about to prove it, you
bring me scripture indeed, which as I conceive are nothing correspondent to
the purpose, you quote me the precept of Christ & example of Steven, which
instances onely praying for our enemies. I conceive there to be two sorts of
enemies to be praied for & that after a double manner, the enemies of the
Church of God in generall and our owne enemies in particular. For the first
sort we are to pray either for their conversion (because we know not whether
they belong to God or no) or confusion (as David imprecates in some of his
Psalmes against such enemies) & this may be done in the publicke congregation.
For our owne particular enemies, we may pray for them generally in the
publicke congregation but not particularly, for if any have wronged abused or
reviled us, so as it tends to the dishonour of God & scandall of his Gospell,
though we are to forgive them in our heart & earnestly pray for their pardon
& to qualifie our heat of malice with some affection of love: Yet not to testifie
our forgiveness outwardly by praying for them publiquely till such time as
they seeke reconciliation & submit themselves lest we confirme the verity of
the former & insure the like upon our selves in future times.

Now for your place in Jeremy 29.7."" where the prophet exhorts the people
of the Jewes, to pray for the peace and prosperity of the city whether they
were led captive producing this reason for in the peace of that, they shall have
peace. Those words as I perceive are no proofe of the point in hand, when the
prophets drift is to teach & divert the people how to undergoe their captivity
with the more ease by praying that the city might be at peace freed from
trouble & warre & perplexity, for they being there resident, if any such combustions
be must be sure to share in them, therefore seeke the prosperity of
the city & pray to the Lord for it, that so they might with the more patience &
lesse grief waite upon God, for the time of their deliverance, not for any affection
that the Prophet beareth to the Tyrant or to the City (which may seeme
if you take the words too literally) noe for not onely the Israelites but all the
world yea & the very insensible creatures should rejoyce when these Tyrants
should be destroyed as we may read Isaiah .14. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. & so forward.*

And for that in Samuel, unlesse you will prove the Israelites to be such as
she is, is very impertinent, but if it were soe (which is a gross falsity to thinke,)
yet its to no purpose for first its a question whether he praied for them in
private or in publique, but if he did pray for them in publique, yet they first
confess their sinnes & humble them selves openly before him, but you may tell
me, so did she in regard she sent to be praied for, but it is apparent to the
contrary whatever she seemingly pretends, witness her vile words spoken to
one that professt Godlyness, about that time, which though she now deny yet
can be justified on oath to the contrary, so that it is cleare she had no love nor
liking to the waies of God, neither to humiliation nor prayer but onely to
have her sickness removed (which many an honest woman endures more in
the common disease of child bearing) it's true we must judge charitably, but
charity judges not absolutely not peremptorily & though it hope well of all
things: yet it is not a toole to conclude all things. Again the prophet convicts
them of & laies open unto them the hainousness of their sinne & reproves
them sharpely & severely for it, & that before he prayes for or at the least
manifests his prayer to them which may be plainly seene by viewing the
context, which if she had beene (as the manner of some other reformed
churches are) I could have held well with. But for to be praied for in the
publique congregation before she had testified her humiliation & repentance
& before she had beene soundly reproved, I cannot thinke to be lawfull since
her fault was so scandalous, lest it were a countenancing of her in it. For the
Apostle saith plaine .1.Tim. 5. 20."" them that sinne rebuke openly that the
rest may feare, thus much for that.

Now for your Reasons to prove the words Deare Sister at the buriall of
the Papist to be lawful, I thinke them little lesse than cavills, it's true, we had
all one father by creation, & we are all by nature the children of wrath, but
now nature is changed by grace in the godly & old things are passed away, &
we are now no more strangers & foreiners but citizens with the saints &
houshold of God, and now what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness
what communion hath light with darkness? What concord hath
Christ with Belial? and what part hath a believer with an Infidell? I leave to
the learned to judge.

And for her profession, I pray how did she professe Jesus Christ, was it
not after a wrong manner? are not all the tenents of the papisticall religion for
the most part egregious & pernicious errors, derogatory to the honour &
dignity of Christ, and that in a high degree, I presume your selfe can witness,
nay she was an Infidell being a papist, for they deny the faith of us Christians
& cleave to the covenant of workes which is now abrogated, and no man 1s
able to performe neither is any man justified by it. Gal. 3. 11.""° And as I said
before what communion or fellowship hath a believer with them? And especially
in such a neere bond of relation as to be a Sister or Brother to them by
profession. I thinke it little lesse then to partake of their sinnes, wherein we
lye lyable to partake of her plagues.

And for Baptisme, when she was baptized she knew not what she did, but
others were surely for her, which when she came to age, was bound to
performe, but refused (violating her covenant she there made & judged her
selfe unworthy of eternall life, following dumbe Idolls as she was led) and
joyned unto a false church: that the Apostles words might be verified they
went out from us for they were not of us, if they had beene of us, they would
no doubt have continued with us still. So that Antichristians & Christs
followers have no relation nor affinity to or with one another.

But you may object, it may be said to them as well as to carnall men living
in this Church, I deny it, for they submitting themselves to the ordinances of
God (though perhaps church papists) are under the compass of a truc visible

church (as farre as I yet see) when as the Papists are of a false church &c. so
much for that.
Secondly you blame me for saying you meddled with great ones which you
had best let alone &c. I protest unto you, I never said it. The words that I said
(as neere as I can remember without either addition or detraction) were these:
you had discanted on some randome, concerning praying for Maudline,
which if you have done, you know, whether they be great one or little ones, if
you have not then you may repute me a lying Christian (as well as envying
Christ) but I know on what grounds I spake it.

For your third it is partly true & partly false. I then spake in the words of
the Apostle that you ought to live with your wife as a man of knowledge,
which I thinke you cannot take distast at since it was the words of the Holy
Ghost, & for your propounding to me the reasons of your living asunder, I
desire it not. Thinke not (I pray) that I harbour curiosity so much in me, as to
be a meddler in other folkes matters, lest I come under the Apostles reproofe,
onely I thinke it occasion of scandall for a professor & his wife to live at
variance. For the other part I disclaime it utterly & therefore cannot nor will
not Answer for that which I never said nor thought.

For the fourth also is partly true & partly false, for the first I said it if I
were to live in the house as Goody Kennard is I should not endure, but to
reprove you plainly, which was all to my knowledge that I said, wherein I
meant plainly & simply as I wish any one would do to me when they see
amisse in me. But for the other that she should not suffer you to use her
house, it is others slanders and not my words.

For your last I have nothing to do with it, neither did I know any word to
that effect was spoke till I questioned about it & neither were as you have set
them downe, but I wonder why you should burden me with it, seeing you
know I spoke it not except by your denying the negative, you would have
others prove the affirmative, which I know none meanes to doe.

This I hope will give you satisfaction for that I spake, without any further
contention, & whereas you reprove me for whispering behind your backe I
may justly retort it on your selfe; for I spake it to one of your sociable companions,
but you noised it abroad before divers as I had notice, before you
knew the truth. Thus craving pardon for my boldness intreating you to make
a favourable construction of all my Errors. I commit you to your safest conduct
of the surest conductor and so remaine

Sometime your loved Sometime

your loathed

Sa: Jeake"	Religious conflicts in Rye	ENGLISH	3707	Goodman Coulton			1641	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	JOHN COULTON	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	UNK	UNK	ANTAGONIST	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""JOHN COULTON"""
j_3	ESRO FRE 4223 fos. 69-70	[3] Samuel Jeake senior to his friends in the army, undated. Copy letter with heading.	32	Samuel Jeake	Dearest and most entirely beloved friends	Soe prayeth yours whilst his owne			"My letter as a last farewell sent to my friends in the Army Jn° Coulton, Joseph
Relfe, Thomas Caven & others."	"""""] John 5: 21."	"My letter as a last farewell sent to my friends in the Army Jn° Coulton, Joseph
Relfe, Thomas Caven & others.

Dearest and most entirely beloved friends

My best love salutes you. My tenderest Affections are toward you, whom I
love as my owne soule, whose happines is my rejoycing, whose griefe is my
Dollour, whose victories shall be my crowne, whose societies I judge my selfe
unworthy to enjoy, because the Lord hath deprived me of it: & that I feare in
anger. I am right glad to heare from you. Your letters did not a little refresh
my dropping spirits. Oh how I long to see you! much more to abide with you;
that so we have beene comely in our lives, in our deaths we might not have
beene divided. & now what adds downe weight to my sorrowe? but that I feare
I shall never see your faces more. But the will of the Lord must be done. I
know mine iniquities are of such a distracting power that they do not onely
sequester my friends but labour to separate my God from me. I have little to
write to you, but a last farewell. I can do nothing for you but that which I
daily do (to wit) often ply heaven with prayers for your good whose conditions
all joyntly & every one severally according to my weake abillity both are
& shall be commended to God continually by me. What shall I say? I desire
your safe returne againe if the will of the Lord be so. I desire victory for you,
against your & the Lords enemies. I desire you may (as I heare you are) be
couragious, having so good a cause call & captaine. I desire you may keepe
your selves from spiritual pollutions: Babes keepe yourselves from Idolls
Amen."" And what you are deprived of in respect of publick Administrations,
I desire the Lord by the immediate workings & conveyance of his spirit to
make good to you. When you go forward, or shall set upon any attempt what
is my desire? but that the Lord would rise up before you & scatter your enemies:
and when you rest, that the Lord would returne to the many thousands
of Israel. In a word I desire your happiness, & in some respect I could even
wish my selfe miserable to attaine my desire. I cannot make an end or give
over the multiplication of my soules wishes for your soules & bodies good. I
am full of matter, & the spirit within me constraines me to go on; let your love
pardon my excesse, it may be the last time that ever you may heare from me,
I know not, but might my speech be long as my heart is large, or could it
possibly be soe: when should I surcease, these my hartiest benedictions, these
my kindest valedictions? Yet I must conquer my selfe & spite of my longing
heart to wish longer. Desiring onely this one thing that what good I am not
able to intreat God for you, the Lord of his goodness may please freely & fully
to give downe upon you all for ever, that so it may come to passe that in all
respects & estates what soever wherein you are or may be considered you may
in every of them be truly blessed that as men you may be faithfull, as souldiers
couragious as Christians gracious, & as Saints glorious, more than these I
cannot pray for & I do & will pray that you may never enjoy less from the
hands of the living God, who giveth abundantly and upbraideth no man, who
sincerely seeketh his face for any present or future favour. And so deare
Christians and Brethren, my faithfull & affectionate heart bids you all farewell,
you are all beloved of me, & I must now leave you to the love of God,
whose power guard you from all evill, grace guide you unto all good, peace
rule in your hearts & mercy compasse you about in all estates. As my loving
friends I leave you to him that is the helper of the friendlesse. As warriours I
leave you to the Lord of Hosts who is the mighty God of battell, as Christians
I leave you to Jesus Christ both your Lord and mine. He abide with you, his
grace abound in you, his Holy Spirit be your comforter on Earth, your conductor
to heaven. And now the God of peace that brought againe from the
Dead the Lord Jesus Christ , that great Shephard of the sheepe through the
blood of the everlasting covenant make you perfect in every good worke to do
his will working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight through Jesus
Christ, to whom be glory for ever and ever

Soe prayeth yours whilst his owne

Samuel Jeake"	The English Civil War	ENGLISH	826					SAMUEL JEAKE SR	FRIENDS IN THE ARMY	MALE	MULT	1623	1600-1640	MULT	UNK	FRIEND	MULT	MULT				UNK	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""FRIENDS IN THE ARMY"""
j_4	ESRO FRE 4223 fos. 102-3	[4] Samuel Jeake senior and others to General Fairfax, undated. Copy letter with heading.	33		Right Honourable				"Copy of the Letter sent by my selfe & some others to the Lord General
Fairfax"		"Copy of the Letter sent by my selfe & some others to the Lord General
Fairfax

Right Honourable

It were lost labour to enumerate to you (who have beene a deepe sufferer
under) the plurality of Evills that have attended this seven yeares warre. Your
faithfull fellow feeling with the poore oppressed Kingdome, hath hitherto
beene manifested in your appearing as a Saviour unto it & your unwearied
undertaking for publique good both in former and later actings. You have
waded through the Kingdome in blood & carrying your life on the point of
your sword have (by the strength of God in you) woone that you weare, & in
valour beene victor.
Yet it is not unknowne to you that the Kingdome yet groanes (for liberty
as Waiting for the manifestacon of the Sonnes of God ) for shall a Nation be
borne at once? or in one day delivered from the monstrous Mola's or conceptions
its wombe hath inclosed & hatched these many ages? our miseries were
breeding many generations agoe, we must turne over yeares & reignes ere we
read their Original, yea runne & rowle beyond the Norman Conquest, &
there finde some seeds of our divisions sowne, some men's wills made laws,
some publique persons act to privat ends, & judgment inverted into gall &
wormwood, this we know what it meanes by wofull experience our diseases
are not of yesterday, they are more desperate than will admit of a tedious
cure, & what more bitter! our physicians have beene of no value, our remedies
have beene our diseases, he that helped & they that were helpen have both
fallen & perished together.

But though our freedome be too intricate for man to recuperate yet are we
not left either hopeless or helpless, our great Jehovah being engaged to effect it,
& for that purpose impower such Actors as majesty from heaven dwells upon,
amongst the which your honour challenges the foremost place, the anointing
upon you being evidenced by the power with & in you, under whom though but
the other day (in the Enemies account) wee were fallen & as dry bones, yet now
are Risen & stand upright the tempestuous & thunder threatening cloudes that
darkened our Horizon being dispersed through the power of the most High
over shaddowing you. Oh loose not the things you have wrought, let there not
be a prize in the hand & no heart to improve it, lest we complaine at last the
harvest is past, the summer is ended & we are not saved.

And though our present grievances have beene more lively represented by
others & our petitions begged before for us: yet in the manifold experiences
we already have of your unparalel'd endeavours for generall good & our
continual confidence of your perseverance therein, reminding your present
engagements: we earnestly crave that amongst your midst & multiplicity of
your weighty agitations, these our few petitionary proposals may have admission
into your serious thoughts, which out of our faithfull affection [word
struck out] to your honour & tender care of the weale of the Republique we
as humbly & earnestly remonstrating both declare and desire.

First that as we do fully adhere to the late Remonstrance & are resolved
to venture lives & fortunes in defence of the Army in the just prosecution of
it: so doe we desire that no delayes (as conceiving them altogether unsafe)
may be admitted therein.

2ly considering that want of care & vigilancy (as well as fidelity) in
Comittees & others betrusted with publique affaires hath beene the seminary
of many evils to this Kingdome: we intreat that care may be taken to refine
them, & that such as shall in any waies be obstructers of justice ether by
opposing it, or not improving their intrusted power to that purpose may be
excluded & also that the like sedulity may be used in removing the Committee
of Accompts & appointing others others in their places they being such whose
endeavours are more to ensnare than to advance the publique good.

3ly The Kingdomes groaning under the burden of freequarter & (yet)
unreasonable taxes, occasioned by the unfaithfull dealing of those entrusted
with the publique treasure: requires (as we humbly conceive) some exquisite
search: & those being found that have any way abused the state by such fraudulent
practises, as to designe the publique treasure to their private advantage
deserve to be severly dealt withall.

4ly minding the nakedness of those marine parts & the great dangers we
lie exposed to, if any new commotions (which God forbid) should break
forth. We earnestly sue that some carefull provision may be made for the sea
coast, & especially neere this place the better to strengthen the hands of the
Kingdomes friends, & to prevent (at present) unthought of mischiefs.

5ly Being grieved to heare the slanderous aspersions the Army is & hath
beene loaded with, notwithstanding its desert to the contrary: we heartily desire,
that all such as shall be knowne to asperse them or to act or speake against their
proceedings in reference to the execution of justice & righteousness may be
brought to condigne punishment.

6ly The principall Actors in and Abbettors of our miserable differences by
reason of prominence in some alliance in others with other such wiseblinding
bribes have regained strength to rally againe & againe when we had well
hoped were irrecoverable: wherefore we humbly intreat your honour that
some commissioners may be appointed to find out the Actors & fomenters of
the late warre & bringing in of the Scots & being found to secure them or
otherwise, without superficial dealing in matters of this concernment. yet a
speciall care to be had of the non oppressing their families.

Tly Because of the distance of this & many other Garrisons from the
Head quarters, & the necessity of intelligence from thence to animate the
souldiery & wel affected residing therein, to joyne with and in defense of the
just proceedings of the Army: we therefore humbly beseech that there may be
an impartiall communication of the Actions of the Army to the respective
Garrisons that shall remonstrate with them by such actors as each Garrison
shall to that purpose appoint & yet all such of the countrey as either have or
shall shew themselves worthy to be confided in may be put in to a posture of
defence."	The English Civil War	ENGLISH	1074					SAMUEL JEAKE SR AND OTHERS	GENERAL FAIRFAX	MULT	MALE	MULT	MULT	1612	1600-1640	POLITICAL	MULT	MULT				UNK	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR AND OTHERS"", ""GENERAL FAIRFAX"""
j_5	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 104	[5] Samuel Jeake senior to Frances Hartridge, 1 July 1650. Copy letter.	36	Samuel Jeake	Most deare & entirely beloved friend	"Madame
Yours as his owne and more"	"Rye July 1
1650"				"Most deare & entirely beloved friend

My heart cannot but emanate unto thee, after whom such a tendency of my
whole selfe is effluxed; as I can no longer enjoy my selfe but in thee for truly I
have not beheld in all the world one so able to reciprocate my longings &
retaliate that love which will never expire but with life. & may I speake, & yet
but modestly in my owne behalf. I can in speaking truth, say, I am not my
owne to be thine.

Deare Heart, pardon my boldnes & consider that I neither can nor dare
eclipse the truth of thy well deservings with complementing vanities or
Nugations: but in reality professe I must needs deviate from truth if I should
speake lesse then venerably of the unworthiest carriage I ever beheld in thee;
so as to me I thinke subordinate to the most High, my joy, solace, comfort,
and foelicitous welbeing are concentiring in thee. Much more I long thou
shouldst experiment, but at present because of the porters speedy returne I

annot enlarge. With my prayers for your health & presentation of my
infained loves, intending my presence shall shortly excuse my rusticke lines, I
shall humbly kisse your hand.

Madame
Yours as his owne and more
Samuel Jeake

Rye July 1

1650

These To Mrs Frances Hartridge with care, private"	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	229		These To Mrs Frances Hartridge with care, private		1650	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	MALE	FEMALE	1623	1600-1640	1630	1600-1640	SUITOR	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	7	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"""
j_6	ESRO FRE 4223 fo, 104	[6] Frances Hartridge to Samuel Jeake senior, 16 July 1650. Original letter.	36	Frances Hartredge	Sir,	"Your well wishing
Freind & servant"		the 16 of July 1650			"Sir,

I perceived by your conferencs when you were last with us that you intended
us a further visit if as a freind without any further reference you will be
welcome to us all but if you intend to pursue your former sute I must hearin
that you may not fall into a laborious losse of time professe my selfe by this
finall negative a totall dissenter. Christian plainenesse ought to proceed from
me who professe my selfe to be a Christian to declare reasons of my totall
deniall might be tedious to you and perhaps a ground of further trouble your
desires possiblye putting you upon an endevor of counterballancing reasons
wieh which to you might perhaps seame probable but to me impossible and
therfore I forbeare to perticularize. [word struck out] Take it in [word illegible]
the most high who hath a soveraigne influence upon my will bends it the cleane
contrary way from you not in relation of freind ship for I wish you the choysest
shee upon the earth and the plentivel of all happines heare and hearafter but
in the relation of wife being resolved in my selfe not as yet to marrye this I
thought good to signifye to you that you might not loose opportunities [sic]
else where nor create future affliction to your selfe by an affection of any long
standing. Pardon my freenes in speaking my heart seing in matters of this
natuer wee cannot bee too plaine, I need not write any thing to stay your spirit
from sinking at the disposall of these affaires, the soveraigne will and providence
of god is a resting point for belevers besides would you turne the tables
and looke upon the unworthines and unhansomnes of the object perhaps
better lost then found this might further compose your spirit with which
compare those many who exceed me far in portion proportion virtue and
discent of one which you are capable but in so plaine a case I need not adde
reasons in the addition wherof my lines perhaps might swell and perhaps overflow
the banks of reason which if they should might chalenge excuse from my
sex and yeares so desiring the god of peace to quiet your heart at all times and
perticularly in this my totall and finall deniall I take leave and rest Sir

Your well wishing
Freind & servant
Frances Hartredge
the 16 of July 1650"	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	406				1650	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	FEMALE	MALE	1630	1600-1640	1623	1600-1640	SUITOR	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	7	FALSE	"""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"""
j_7	ESRO FRE 4223 fos. 106-7	[7] Samuel Jeake senior to Frances Hartridge, 1 August 1650. Copy letter.	37	S.J.	Dearest friend	"Mrs
Your true & affectionate friend & servant"	Rye 1 August	1650		"""Upon the great Physician.
*A misquotation of Virgil, Georgics 1:199200,
sic omnia fatis in peius ruere et retro sublapsa
referri: ""Thus all things, by the fates, rush to the worse and, having slipped, are carried backwards'.
*Contrary to the truth
*The most foolish of bipeds."	"Dearest friend

I cannot but contemplate the Metamorphosis of thy aspect towards me and
as ponderously ballance the cause: the which (ah my hart) am I neither
sophicall enough to know, nor physicall enough to cure; but must rest super
magnum Medicum"" although that I may use the poets words Omnia in pejus
rueré et retro pede lapsa referri.* I wish my selfe under a capacity of deserving
your love; but the way thither is to me uncouth, & soe intricate cA causa. For I
waver in a sea of uncertainty, believing thy selfe can fancie me (or else I should
desist.) and not knowing what inferior reasons can counterpoise; but so faine
a bloome might have as fertill a harvest. Yet may I not see thee upon any other
accoumpt then as a common friend, as the letter didascalizeth, on paine of the
forfeiture of my welcome the which though I cannot ceremonize yet I confesse
hath exceeded my deserts. If I answer to one objection, [word struck out]
another succeeds, and a third dethrones a second & which is more, each reply
ingerminates more scruples in thee: yet what should I not endeavour so I might
be ascertained of thy love? But to fight still in the aire, amounts to nothing but
vapours of victory. And if to satisfy thee I should administer to the deceased
& contract for the payment of some long past debts, purchasing to my selfe
trouble enough besides an undoubted resurrection of jealousies (if of no
more) that I as conscious to my selfe of former fraude (cuius contrarium
verum est*) should now administer which I have till now refused: being assured
it will nothing else but expose me & through me the Gospell to the vituperie of
the world and resurge matters now more than five yeares obliterate and buried,
alwaies minding that it cannot adde to my foelicity, nor enfranchise me, either
in point of conscience or the law with any cleerer right or title unto what I
anjoy than what I already have & enjoy it with: and yet then not to be certaine
of acceptation with thee neither, & so to loose the end of my engagement,
would but render me ridiculous, if not Bipedum Stultissimus.""°
My friend I confesse with thee, the will of God is a resting point for believers,
& therefore I cannot say much though my heart be enlarged, yet had need to
desire submission to his will & herein implore your helpe. Yet I know not how
upon so slender a testimony as one letter to receive such a selfe denying dissent.
But if still the prevalency of that soveraigne influence (as you dogmatize) hath
resolyedly bent your will to an everlasting blast of my hopes, as a token you
have blotted out all thoughts of love toward me, take your pen & rase out my
lines & returne them to me in that mourning garbe, the which after I have
embalmed with a few brinish drops, I shall crave strength of the most High to
bowe to his will, but shall never cease to wish well to you, because I am

Mrs
Your true & affectionate friend & servant
S.J.

Rye 1 August

1650

These To Mrs Frances Hartridge in Marden private"	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	549		These To Mrs Frances Hartridge in Marden private		1650	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	MALE	FEMALE	1623	1600-1640	1630	1600-1640	SUITOR	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	7	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"""
j_8	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 107	[8] Samuel Jeake senior to Frances Hartridge, 23 August 1650. Copy letter.	39	Sa: Jeake	Sweet friend,	"Mrs
Your true friend & servant"	"Rye August 23
1650"				"Sweet friend,

My Letters as my love to you have beene most unfortunate, since I have failed
though I have looked for a requitall of both. Ah unhappy me! not worthy the
answer of a few lines, your receipt I question not because of the former faithfulness
of the Messenger. I may not see thee, I cannot heare from thee. Ah!
what a deluge of doubt I drive in, & yet more I know no ende. Nullis amor est
medicabilis herbis.** How faire could I further engage for thy sake (if it might
be accepted) I here neither say nor can. But I beseech you in all tenderness of
bowells, even as I at your request have forborne to visit you, you will at mine
be pleased to honour me with a perspective of your mind, the which I daily
expect & now begge at your hands, or returne my papers with a blacke face
that I may solemnize their dislike & mine in mournfull eulogies the which
though I professe I know not how I shall beare nor scarce can write without
excruciate ____ yet I am but clay & in the hands of the potter, who will do
what he pleases, to whom I shall supplicate for your welfare continually, longing
[words struck out] to heare therof, intreating your excuse on my confused
lines because they come frome a confused minde & that in

Mrs
Your true friend & servant
Sa: Jeake
Rye August 23
1650

To Mrs Frances Hartridge these private trust"	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	255		To Mrs Frances Hartridge these private trust		1650	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	MALE	FEMALE	1623	1600-1640	1630	1600-1640	SUITOR	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	7	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"""
j_9	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 107	[9] Christopher Blackwood to Samuel Jeake senior, 3 September 1650. Original letter.	39	Ch: Blackwood	Lo[ving] Sir,	Your assured frend	"Ag September 3
1650"			"""Love is not to be cured by medicinal herbs, Ovid.
""Frances Hartridge."	"Lo[ving] Sir,

Yours I received both first and second together with rules about the rule of
three for all which with other your [word illegible] I returne you many thankes
my sister'' remaines as she was in a negative posture whose inclosed letter I
have hearein sent, the great shirke as to me seameth and truly the only shirk
is feare of and doubt about a good tithe about the things to be possessed from
you which though to many others might seame a thing of nought yet to her
its of that moment that shee cannot goe forward for were there but £200 of
just tithe shee is of such nimble minde that I doe imagen shee would content
her selfe so far is shee from looking after great things, these things I speake as
my own apprehensions I am sorye that you should finde so troublesome business
herein but as our comforts so our troubles are appointed by god. The
cause why you had no sooner an Answer was my forgetfulness for my sister
went to London (where she tarried about a fortnight) & left [word struck out]
this letter to be sent to you I might met with a sure messenger from Rye three
weeks agoe or thereabouts & forgot to give it to him & since we had not an
opportunity till this day, My wife desires to be remembered to you. No more
at present save that I am
Your assured frend
Ch: Blackwood
Marden
Ag September 3
1650"	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	254				1650	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	MALE	MALE	1607	1600-1640	1623	1600-1640	FRIEND	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	16	FALSE	"""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"""
j_10	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 108	[10] Frances Hartridge to Samuel Jeake senior, 14 August 1650. Original letter,assumed enclosure with Christopher Blackwood's letter of 3 September.	40	Frances Hartredge	Sir,	assured freind & servant		August the 14: 1650:		* Always the same.	"Sir,

I had well thought that I had in my former paper as well as by a living voyce
set the impassable bounds of a nonplus ultra to your sute by rendering myself
totally and finallye negative thereunto as my lines upon perusall will further
demonstrate but seing you further try me whether time or sum new emergent
occation or reason have wrought any change in me from what I was I must
declare ingeniously that I am hearin to use queene elizabeths [word struck
out] motto semper eadem* that is as absolute in my deniall as formerly I was.
I must by this silent messenger returne you many thanks for your loving
opinion and affections towards me towards me which I shall in a way of
freindship though not of mariage endeavor to requite pardon mee if I speake
plaine language for it is in reference to you that J may not put you tron upon
any a laborious losse of time & cost for me to put you to any hard taske of
restitution or any thing else and heareby give away my liberty were but folly
and madnes in me and so much the more in a matter wherein your conscience
is so fully satisfied and the effects of the busines so uncertaine and troublesome
truly I shall forbeare hearein and all together counsell you in patience
and silence to rest in the pleasuer of that god who worketh all things after the
counsell wit of his owne will who [words struck out] knoweth what you have
need of and I hope will wherto my wishes are provide you a helpmeet. I have
returned your lines rased as a token that I have blootted all thoughts of love
to you in relation to wedlocke though not in relation to freindship if the certificate
wherof shall create any sorrowes in you it will be your wisdome to take
the advantage of them and turn them into godly sorrow I count it some part
of my unhappines that I should occation sorrow to any much lesse to a freind
yea such a freind that hath had so large affections as you have I doubt not in
truth profest. Sir I have no more at present save that I am your

assured freind & servant

Frances Hartredge
August the 14: 1650:"	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	391				1650	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	FEMALE	MALE	1630	1600-1640	1623	1600-1640	SUITOR	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	7	FALSE	"""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"""
j_11	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 111	[11] Copy of a contract between Samuel Jeake senior and Frances Hartridge, with heading in Samuel's hand.	41							""" Frances Hartridge."	"Afterwards having some discourse with Mr Blackwood & receiving some
incouragement I went againe and after a right understanding of things she
consented upon the proposalls following, readily granted by me, and we were
happily married July 17"" 1651.

Propositions which I"" judge reasonable, which being granted I know not of
any other thing I shall desire

1. I desire libertie of conscience & that I may have This was performed as oft as
all conveniencies for a journey to the church shee desired after marriage.
whereof I am a Member fower times in the yeare.

2. For the goods which were your fathers, because Some goods were sold &
I am not established in conscience about the title others the property altered
of them & so consequently not of the use of & she better satisfied therein
them, though you your selfe be; I desire that so
much of it as will be worse for using may be
changed with what convenience may be and
some other which will be of a right propertie in
my conscience purchased, which I may use in
the roome thereof.
3. That forasmuch as I know not the manner of She never tooke offence that
your worship nor whether there will be any I ever learned, nor at any
thing that will offend my conscience therein: time when in Towne or case
I desire that if there should be such worship as to go forth did absent her
my heart cannot close withall nor my bodily selfe.

presence allow of without sin, that it may be no
alienation of conjugal affection if I should

absent herein.

4. That whereas my Brother Mr Blackwood told The joynture was
me that he had proposed no other condition accordingly made but I
about temporal estate save the joynture of the being the survivor & she

house unto me: yet this thing I shall adde that in _ leaving issue is voide
case we have no issue and if you should dye first I
desire it may be given to me & my heires for ever.

5. That you will be pleased for as much as I see my I Mary Blackwood was

sister Blackwood over burthened with young brought down & kept here
children to let me keepe Mary Blackwood her till my wife desired to send
daughter till we have children of our owne. her home.

Which things being by you subscribed I trust I shall show my selfe
a loyal loving & dutiful wife."	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	420					SAMUEL JEAKE SR	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	MALE	FEMALE	1623	1600-1640	1630	1600-1640	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE			7	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"""
j_12	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 112	[12] Frances Hartridge to Samuel Jeake senior, 28 May 1651. Original letter:	42	FH	My deare,	"your most affectionate
freind and servant
My Brother went to London on ty tuesday
My Sister and the familie are well"		May 28 1651			"My deare,
having this opportunity I could not but salute you with this paper not d
doubting of you had providence offered you the first opportunity as it hath
done mee, I can but give you [word struck out] only hearin a testimoniall of
the confirmation of that fidelitye and love wherein J am ingaged to you be
assured that true affection is lodged in my hart to you wards which nothing at
hope save death salt shall remove, I shall not bee much in declaring that which
if by you I am confident unsuspected freinds in there absence are wont to
speake their hearts by letters I hope you forget not to implore the most high
touching our intended busines my broken praiers shall not bee wanting one
thing I shall propose as a quere whether it bee expede for you to lay any thing
out in building seing in a short time god may offer you a more convenient
house upon easie tearmes and then you may let out your owne but this I onely
propose: God evermore blesses you and direct all your waies in reference to
his owne glory and your everlasting good peace is the praier of

your most affectionate

freind and servant

FH
May 28 1651

My Brother went to London on ty tuesday
My Sister and the familie are well"	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	227				1651	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	FEMALE	MALE	1630	1600-1640	1623	1600-1640	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	7	FALSE	"""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"""
j_13	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 113	[13] Samuel Jeake senior to Frances Hartridge, 30 May 1651. Copy letter.	43	Samuell Jeake	Deare Heart	your ever lo: consort		"May 30"" 1651"			"Deare Heart
I kindly thanke thee for thy loveing letter my tyme is soe short; that I cannot
write what I would, but I trust to speake with thee shortly: yet it will be middle
of next weeke before I can come for I had thoughts to have beene with
thee on munday next but I have employments with the mayor. Prethee excuse
my brevity & present my kind respects to Mrs Blackwood & thus with my
prayers for you I remaine
your ever lo: consort
Samuell Jeake
May 30"" 1651"	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	91				1651	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	MALE	FEMALE	1623	1600-1640	1630	1600-1640	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	7	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"""
j_14	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 114	[14] Christopher Blackwood to Frances Hartridge, 30 May 1651. Original letter.	43	Ch: Blackwood	Deare Sister	Your assured loving Br[other] till death		"May 30
1651"			"Deare Sister

I have sent your joynture ready for sealing if you proceed on in finishing your
marriage before I come backe which I would counsell now to doe (especially
if it be his desire) then let Mr Jeake seale the joynture first to my unkle John
Hartridge for you and then let him seale the bond but if you see the bond be
offensive to him you wave it for it is of no great moment where wee deale with
honest persons of which I judge him to be one. Though I bee put in as a
feoffee for you with my unkle yet if I could not come so soone as I desire &
your occation will require yet will it be sufficient without me if made over to
my unkle my praiers shall not bee wanting for your good success in your
business. I have sent Goodye Darbye her virginall strings they cost a shilling.
If you should marrye before I come backe yet would I not have you to goe to
Rye till my returne if the Lord shall please to bring me backe but if he should
not bring me backe the journey being long and my bodily strength weake yet
I hope wee shall meete and bee for ever with the lord. Remember my warning
take heed of hardness of heart in time of prosperitie [words struck out]
endeavour to please him that shall be your husband and dwell with him with
an amiable meekenes & contendedness of minde and doe not greeve his spirit
with the least forwardness affections may be easilye lost but hardly recovered
be courteous to all & loving to stsin saints in speciall remember mine when I
am dead for ther fathers sake who loved you dearlye and would have showen
more tokens of it had not outward straits stood in the way follow your latine
still at spare times when you are married. I thinke to bee onely three lords
dayes whither I goe and then (if the lord will) to make my returne for Kent
but man purposes but god determines the extreame pressures that have lyon
on me this yeare or two have some thing interrupted my communion with my
god but now I find him returning towards me in my ancient way of acquaintance
for I desire you to give thanks keepe close with god take heed the desires
of your knowledge of the latine tongue doe not take of your heart from tend
pietye in your heart and life is ther anything like to Jesus Christ and commune
with him. The lord perfect that which I trust so hath begun in you that you
may be presented spotless at the coming of X with exceeding joy my dearest
sister farwell

Your assured loving Br[other] till death

Ch: Blackwood
May 30
1651

I am sorye that I could not tarye at home till your business was whollye
effected but sadly had in probability lost this present opportunity which
providence seames to offer & the your business could in a manner effected.

When I come backe from my journey I thinke to pay Mary Streater what you
dwe her but I dar not before for feare monye should fall short & I in a strange
place remember my kind love and respects to Mr Jeake."	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	559			"I am sorye that I could not tarye at home till your business was whollye
effected but sadly had in probability lost this present opportunity which
providence seames to offer & the your business could in a manner effected.
When I come backe from my journey I thinke to pay Mary Streater what you
dwe her but I dar not before for feare monye should fall short & I in a strange
place remember my kind love and respects to Mr Jeake."	1651	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	MALE	FEMALE	1607	1600-1640	1630	1600-1640	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	23	TRUE	"""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD"", ""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"""
j_15	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 115	[15] Christopher Blackwood to Frances Hartridge, 11 June 1651. Original letter.	44	Ch: Blackwood	Deare & loving sister		"11"" day of June Ann 1651."				"Deare & loving sister

The last time I did not write to you because I was in a hurrye of business now
having a little leasure I would have you see a glymse of that true affection I
beare to you, What god will do with mee I cannot tell I am as clay in the hand
of the potter when he hath tryed me I shall come forth as gold. I long for the
time of our meeting together remember my kind love & respects to your
freind Mr Jeake I am heartily sory your business should be delaied by my
meanes. I have no more but onely to exhort you to stand fast in your faith &
to cleave unto god who will never faile you nor forsake you if you cleave to
him remember ther are eternall joyes with X far beyond all the married joyes
of this world in the enjoyment of our god let us a little encourage ourselves,
hoping for a fuller [word struck out] enjoyment hereafter. Deare sister take
heed you bee not wicked with the pompe & glory of this world keepe your
acquaintance with X renew it every day for my affaires my wives letter can tell
you how it is. Remember mee in your praiers. Let your heart be drawen up
often to prize X in adverse times if ever you be cast upon them ther you will
finde lasting consolation. It is he that is able to supply your want of father
Brother freind. Strive to live to god make him your end make him your joy
beware of declining in affection to the lord seing so it ever [word illegible] if
the world come upon you let ther be largeness of heart to doe good that fruits
may abound in the day of your account remembering that a fruitfull life never
wants [word illegible] of assurance. My dearest sister farwell the lord grant us
a joyfull meeting. I rest your affectionate Brother till death.

Ch: Blackwood
From Collonel Duckenfields in Duckenfield thirtye miles wide of Chester this
11"" day of June Ann 1651."	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	355		From Collonel Duckenfields in Duckenfield thirtye miles wide of Chester this		1651	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	MALE	FEMALE	1607	1600-1640	1630	1600-1640	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	23	TRUE	"""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD"", ""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"""
j_16	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 116	[16] Christopher Blackwood to Frances Hartridge, 17 June 1651. Original letter.	45	C. Blackwood	Deare Sister		Chester June 17			What I was ashamed to say, love has commanded me to write, Ovid.	"Deare Sister
I wrote to you June 14"" I hope you received it. This is to informe that god
willing about the 8"" or 9"" of July I purpose god assisting to bee in Marden
against which time let all your business bee readye and if you please you may
write to Mr Jeake to bee for about the tenth of Julye. Remember my cordiall
respects to him. I shall desire your happines in your proceedings I suppose as
much as any freind you have in the world. Dicere qua puduit scribere jussit
amor."" One of my greatest southerne sorrowes is that wee must part but this
comforts me that it is for your good and that I trust once more I shall behold
you in this world if not oftner how much more I shall behold you at the right
hand of the judge in reference whereto goe onto follow your god who never
failes his make him your joy in whom is lasting comfort let your meditation
be much with him make him your joy make him your treasure pray for mee. I
expect to be saluted with a letter from you at London my dearest sister farwell
I shall pay Mary Streater at my returne if god will. Present my true love to Mr
Jeake. May god keepe you all in whose eternall armes I leave you hoping ther
to finde you in Christ fraterally yours

C. Blackwood
Chester June 17"	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	244				1651	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	MALE	FEMALE	1607	1600-1640	1630	1600-1640	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	23	TRUE	"""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD"", ""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"""
j_17	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 117	[17] Christopher Blackwood to Frances Hartridge, 21 June 1651. Original letter.	46		Deare Sister	Remember my kind & hearty respects to Mr Jeak		June 21 1651			"Deare Sister

I cannot passe by you unsaluted. I wrote in my former which I suppose you
have received that about the 10"" or 11"" of July I hope your business will bee
finished. If the Lord bring mee home sowbeit because things are casuall in so
long a journey doe not appoint it till I come home & then wee will send a messenger
over to him. Pray for mee that the lord may bring us once more together
which is my exceeding desire. Encourage your selfe in god in all hard times grow
out of love with the world stay your selfe on that all sufficiency who hath not
failed you in a time of need neither will it faile mee. Remember X & all things
goe together feare nothing but him. Love god soveraignelye. Pray fervently &
looke for answers to your praiers be affraid of delayes & tremble at declinings
cleath often towards X & let things bee on such good tearmes betwixt X & you
that you may long for his appearance. I have noe more to offer save the affections
of him who loves you with an unfained dearenes & rest yours C. B.

June 21 1651

Remember my kind & hearty respects to Mr Jeak"	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	212				1651	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	MALE	FEMALE	1607	1600-1640	1630	1600-1640	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	23	TRUE	"""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD"", ""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"""
j_18	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 118	[18] Frances Hartridge to Samuel Jeake senior, 9 July 1651. Original letter.	46		Deare love	"yours till
death F H
I desire you to buy me a ring with a diamond in it and bring it with you and
be not unmindfull of the gloves I spake to you of."		July the 9 1651			"Deare love
that no weeke might passe with out sume visit personall or signall as preparatorye
to that immediate mutuall fruition wherto the providence of our god I
trust hath designed us I have put pen to paper and so much more in that
absent freinds are wont to keepe affections alive this way. I shall not forget to
informe you of my Br Blackwood his safe returne on July the 5 Saturday who
with the rest of the family are in health hee desires [word struck out] to have
his respects presented I intend to send a trunk of cloathes and other things by
Champ or Johnson I have all things ready for our business be assured of the
tender affections of her that loves you till time and death sever. Things are
appointed towards the nuptials according to your appointed time on thursday
July 17 hast calles me away I shall not word any further which is but superfluous
where affections are not questioned im so desireing your prayers for a
good succes upon the inter intended busines I rest

yours till

death F H
July the 9 1651
I desire you to buy me a ring with a diamond in it and bring it with you and
be not unmindfull of the gloves I spake to you of."	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	221				1651	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	FEMALE	MALE	1630	1600-1640	1623	1600-1640	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	7	FALSE	"""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"""
j_19	ESRO FRE 4223 fos. 119-120	"[19] Christopher Blackwood to Frances Jeake (neé Hartridge), 9 August 1652."" Original letter."	47	Ch: Blackwood	Deare sister	Your assured loving Br		"August 9
1652"		*'The marriage took place on 17 July 1651.	"Deare sister
I received my Brothers letter and perceive you had beene downe out of your
chamber & were somthing recovered from your sickness, I desire to blesse god
for his goodness to you & desire that you may make a sanctified use of hts the
chastisement of the lord learne to see that those visitations to the elect are as
cups out of the hand of a father who are chastened of the lord that you may
not be condemned with the world. Let it be your wisedom to profit by the
lords hand on you who delivered you from a double danger that you may
hearby double your prayses to our god, in your prayses remember that god
had respect to your strength, and that he was your present refuge in your
trouble. Let the use of this triall bee to make you humble before the lord &
meeke towards them [words struck out] with whom you doe converse & to
search for the sin which hath caused the lord to break in upon you. Remember
to pay the resolutions you made to god in the time of your trouble. Strive to
be cheerfull the righteous are oft called to rejoyce in god as well as tomorrow
for corruption; too much melancholye doth not credit our profession we are
called to serve the lord with gladness. Strive for contentedness of spirit. It will
not onely make your condition easie but the condition of others in your
familye you are as a citye set on a hill labour to hold forth a holy life, least it
[be] said what doe you more than others. Regard not any ornament so much
as that of a meek spirit which beautifyes in the sight of god. Let your heart
breath after ordinances in the want of them. ftes We desire to see you and
my brother as soone as god shall make you fit for travell.

All our family are through mercy in health but many about us verye sicke.
I desire you to excuse my suddaine departure when I was last at Rye which
was for diverse causes necessitated, but future opportunity god willing may
oceation a longer tariance. My wife received her things by Rich. Johnson
remember my kind love to Goody Shoesmith & the rest of my friends also my
wives [word illegible] present my love & duty to my mother & tell her that I
expect her to come over shortly unto us. So with both our loves to you & my
Brother very kindly remembred I take leave & I rest
Your assured loving Br
Ch: Blackwood
Marden
August 9
1652"	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	444				1652	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	MALE	FEMALE	1607	1600-1640	1630	1600-1640	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	23	TRUE	"""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD"", ""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"""
j_20	ESRO FRE 4223 fo. 120	[20] Frances Jeake (neé Hartridge) to Christopher and Mary Hartridge, undated. Original letter.	48	Frances Jeake	deare and well beloved brother and sister	"your assured
loving sister"				"*Thomas, born 29 June 1653.
* Samuel junior and Thomas."	"deare and well beloved brother and sister

after my deare love to you both and my littell cousins remembered I greete
you in the lord Jesus the captaine of our salvation who throu [word struck
out] the bloud of the everlasting covenant hath made and us perfect and compleat
in himselfe to his [word struck out] apearing. I having an oppertunitie
cannot but let you heare that we are all in health throwh the mercy of our
good god hoping the same of you and yours the last I wrot to you was about
the later end of June which was scent by brother Covenye I suppose you have
receved it. It hath pleased the lord since your departure to give me a safe
deliverance of another son which my husband acquainted you of in his last
letter they are both very thriving childrin throwgh gods mercy I desire we
may be thankful I have littell good news to acquaint you with. We looke for
peace and behold truble, for righteousness and behold opression, our eyes
evne faile with looking but I trust the lord will support his people in times of
truble: your frinds her are for the most part in health [words struck out] but it
hath pleased god to release out of this life our Brother Jacson which is a
greate lost to the saints I was at his funerall and went from thence to Marden
he died above ten weeks agoe we have not heard from you but once sinc you
went but I [words struck out] hope you will not neglect to scend when oppertunitie
shall serve I shall be very glad to heare of your well being thought I
cannot inioy you heare yet this is my comfort that if I cannot behold you
[words struck out] in this world I shall behold you at the right hand of the
judge in refernce wherto let us goe onto folow our god who will never faile us
in a time of neede. O let us labor to have our harts low in time of prosperitic
and to live on god in time of adversitie for it is but a litell while and he that
shall come will come and not tary and then what will these things profit I
beseech you remember me at the throne of grace that I may walke close with
god in this crooked and perverse generation among whome I live. My dearest
Br and sister farewell my good god keepe you all in whose eternall armes I
leave you and rest
your assured
loving sister
Frances Jeake
Rye"	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	438					FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	CHRISTOPHER AND MARY HARTRIDGE	FEMALE	MULT	1630	1600-1640	MULT	1600-1640	FAMILY	MULT	MULT				UNK	"""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"", ""CHRISTOPHER AND MARY HARTRIDGE"""
j_21	"ESRO FRE 4223 fos. 122; 124"	[21] Frances Jeake (neé Hartridge) to Mary Hartridge, 24 March 1653. Original letter.	49	"sister Frances
Jeake"	deare sister	your affectionat		March the 24 1653			"deare sister

my tender love to you with my deare brother and my cousins andthe
-rest
yours remembered I have receved dated the 24 of October and am ioyful to
heare of your health this is the 4 letter as I thinke I have wrot to you sence
your departure and I have had 3 of yours these few lines are to let you know
that we are all in health bessed [sic] be god hoping the same of you and youres
I have understand you licke well of your habitation and ther is hope of your
returning which if there were I sould be glad if it were for your good otherwise
I am content with the will of god it is the lord let him doe what seemeth
him good therefore deare sister seing the lord hath bestowed so many mercys
on you first and above all things consider that as every good and perfect gift
pertaining to soule and body is given fom from above and commeth from the
father of light even so to whomsoever the lord dealeth any of his benefit of
them he doth ehifety chiefly require a thankful heart for the same which my
desire is may not be wanting in any of us that profess his name but I feare
there is much backwards even in the best of us and for my owne part I may
speeke by experienc I inioy many mercys from the lord but walke so unworthy
under them that I may iustly feare the lord will turne the same into my greate
disprofit and discomfort at the last: I am glad to hear of the increase of the
gosple amongst you and of your walking sweetely to gather myear
earnest
desire is that that grace of love may exceedingly abound whieh toward onanother
though difrent in sum points love is that which doth most beautifie a
Christian [word illegible] Christ saith by this shall all men know that ye are
my disciples if ye love one another but this is much wanting amongst the
saints and in stead therof division which brings much dishoner to the truth
and causeth many to stumble at the ways of god [words struck out] for which
we have cause to morne. I have not anygoed
littell to acquaint you with only
hear are sum changs since you went I acquainted you in my last of the death
of Brother Jackson Go Coveny I heare is dead at Bristo I supose you have
heard of it and Mr Gorge Mapliessden of Marden hath buried his wife and
his son in law Mr Busbedg and his eldest son Mr Edward and for the rest of
your acquaintance there were well not long sence Mr William Davis intended
to have came for Ierland this march but god hath prevented him by death his
Buried this day. Good Crouch of this town is also dead [words struck out].
Mrs Hollman is well and desires kindly to be remembered to you and my
brother and to the children andmany
-moretsupose. Goody Shosmith desres
to be remembered to you both and many more I supose would if they had
knowne of this present writing thus I comend you to god desiring him to
blesse you with all spiritual blessings in heavenly things and allso with the
deale of heaven and fatnesse of the earth that in all things you may be made
rich in Christ to the praise of his name is the praier of of [sic]

your affectionat

sister Frances

Jeake
March the 24 1653"	The courtship and marriage of Samuel Jeake, senior and Frances Hartridge	ENGLISH	599				1653	FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE	MARY HARTRIDGE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1630	1600-1640	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""FRANCES JEAKE-HARTRIDGE"", ""MARY HARTRIDGE"""
j_22	ESRO FRE 5264	[22] Richard Langdon to Barbara Holman, 20 September 1659. Original letter.	50	Rich Langdon	Most Excelent Lady	"Faithfull and
Captived vassell
present with care"		"September the 20""
1659"			"Most Excelent Lady

The excesse and incomparablenesse of your Beautey withe your Transendance
And never paralleled vertues causes all your beholders too Admier and Mee
by a devine providence too fixing my Affextions upon you Like a pole in the
senter which is impossible too Remoove without the Destroying of the whole
boddy pardon Mee Maddam if I disclose what Extreame faureyes my
Affections hath Led mee too and caused in mee for when I first behelde that
stately fabrick natuers choosest Architecture I then concluded that havens
Choosest Jewell was there Locked up in Erthes Richest Cabbinet. And when
nature Maide you shee playde the Alchimist and Extracted all the Spirits of
the Elements Leste a Dressy Body should clogg soe Devine a soule Thousands
of More Could I Let you understand but for Intruding too much on your
patience. But Really by you Maddam Am I Involved in as sea of Missery and
am Like too drowne in Love without houlden by you. And wounded I am too
the very harte soo that it is Incurable without your selfe Maddam too be prostrated
so At the throne of your Mercy. It would Make the veryest Addamentall
Harte in the world to Relent and if any dropes was left too distill them from
the Limbeck of their Eyes. Considder seriously I beseech you Maddam of
things of this natuer and transfix your Eyes too Hero and Leander and you
shall finde Love Caused them too Mudder themselves Besides in thousands
Examples you shall finde it no sleight thing. If you considder how it hath
Maide princes becom slaves too their Affections. Pardon I beseech you how
ever love will Apology for mee for being soo much over burdensum too your
patience with Excese of time I would a wayted upon you too day but my orrations
call me too Capt. Turkers but as soone as I Returne god willing I shall
Make bould too pay a vissit too you and shall bee at your servis while I have
Breath to Certyfy you Maddam that I am your thrise humble

Faithfull and

Captived vassell

Rich Langdon
September the 20""

1659

These to the Most worthy and his hihly honred [friend] Mrs Barbara Holman,
present with care"	Wooing Barbara Holman	ENGLISH	376	These to the Most worthy and his hihly honred [friend] Mrs Barbara Holman,			1659	RICHARD LANGDON	BARBARA HARDING-HOLMAN	MALE	FEMALE	UNK	1600-1640	1622	1600-1640	SUITOR	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""RICHARD LANGDON"", ""BARBARA HARDING-HOLMAN"""
j_23	ESRO FRE 5268	[23] Richard Hartshorne to Barbara Harding (previously Holman), 11 May 1662. Original letter.	51	Richard Hartshorne.	Madam,	"My Deare Love
Your faithfull friend & servant
and intire Lover (though know
unworthy of your favour),"		"May 11"" 62"			"May 11"" 62

Madam,

(For the motion's Retrograde but not on my part) I am astonished to
admiration (though not utterly stript of hope) to read your satyricall lines tis
an easy thing I confes to find a staffe to beat a dog, but tis no victory to conquer
the disarm'd nor badge of honour to trample on the Captive but tell me
my Dear, are all crimes capitall? all sins mortall? all transgressions piacular:
or is there no veniall errour under the Sun? I appeale to the barre of judgement,
let not passion sway the Scepter nor Will bias your Reason: had I
exposed your watch by tongue or hand to publique view (which so let me
prosper in your favour & the other world) had I thereby now more than
formerly merited a finall exclusion a forever
excommunication out of your
favours? easily this crime augmented by a magnifying glasse to the highest
aggravation were but veniall, though I doe professe I know not how it should
happen for I neither looked upon it nor wound it up, but when alone, unless
some[one] saw me invisibly or pict my pocket when asleepe, but if it were
granted which I cannot acknowledge unless I bely my selfe, as you in effect
are pleased to say I doe though I can bear that very well from your pen
innocently, notwithstanding I say is there no absolution for such a mistake or
no intercession for such an errour? Is all compassion banish? is every sparke
of respect extinct. Be intreated to be a little more tenderhearted
for indeed
you are in this unlike your selfe. You say my Deare shortest errours are best,
and must this be rankt among the most hainous? Alas! Will nothing les satisfy.
Could I improve the greatest favour, as much as you the least mistake I
should hope to sinke all my fears, split all my doubts and arrive with safety at
the desired Haven. But wo is me! If I have a fair gale one day, I am in danger
of shipwrecke the next, so unfortunate is my bittersweet
voyage. But would
you not have me think you picke a quarrell on purpose to make a breach of
our society, why doe then upbraid me with my fair but you please to stile them
false promises and unregarded now for all kindness. My Deare though but for
a - extinguisht before the time? Put a Period to this high Career, reflect a
little upon your last favour: how doth my heart ake to compare those 2
together! Doe not banish me by a new [word illegible] before the appoynted
time, if it must be then be not so tart to your poor supplicant, nor suffer this
passion to grow inveterate. Can you delight in cruelty & take pleasure in
afflicting your unfeigned but distressed friend & servant doe not make the
worst of every thing, nor conclude of betraying worst part if any were betwixt
us, because your watch hath sounded so loud. I would with all me soule I had
never desired to keepe it. I beseech you pardon the penitent, & Remember the
good old rule doe as you would be done unto, and sound a Retreat to this first
charge, yea renew again my Deare Love the League already made, & grant me
the sight of your face again with comfort that I may inioy some part of my
late & sweet felicity, if you please to honour me with a line or 2 before I see
you I hope 'twill a little revive my drooping heart unfeignedly God knows
devoted to you, and wishing your welfare every way equall with my owne yea
& shall pray for your prosperity though you procure my sorrow of heart. The
God of all flesh deale with me according to the integrity of my heart towards
you and make up this breach betwixt your selfe and, him that loves you as
himselfe, though now accounted unworthy your favour, yet cannot crafe to be
indeed what his pen can subscribe to wit

My Deare Love

Your faithfull friend & servant

and intire Lover (though know

unworthy of your favour),

Richard Hartshorne.

What intelligence so ever you had that told you I had your watch, is nothing,
no nothing at all but imagination to pump you, for there's neither a man nor
woman upon earth that hath either seen it or heard so much from my mouth
save your selfe, I wish with all my heart that you doe not or have not ere this
comes to hand, comfort and then tis well enough. As God shall save my soule
which is of far greater worth than a watch this is true."	Wooing Barbara Holman	ENGLISH	795			"What intelligence so ever you had that told you I had your watch, is nothing,
no nothing at all but imagination to pump you, for there's neither a man nor
woman upon earth that hath either seen it or heard so much from my mouth
save your selfe, I wish with all my heart that you doe not or have not ere this
comes to hand, comfort and then tis well enough. As God shall save my soule
which is of far greater worth than a watch this is true."	1662	RICHARD HARTSHORNE	BARBARA HARDING-HOLMAN	MALE	FEMALE	1622	1600-1640	1622	1600-1640	SUITOR	FALSE	TRUE	TRUE	TRUE	0	FALSE	"""RICHARD HARTSHORNE"", ""BARBARA HARDING-HOLMAN"""
j_24	ESRO FRE 5269	[24] Richard Hartshorne to Barbara Harding (previously Holman), undated. Original letter.	53	Richard Hartshorne,	Ah my dear (but unkind) Heart	"From that hand whose guide
is clouded with tears to thinke
of thy cruelty, yet must ever be
 thine till he be not"				*Mother, mother, mother,	"Ah my dear (but unkind) Heart

Hath not all my love merited a line from thee to be satisfied of thy welfare? I
have not forgotten since I was promised letters full of kisses, and that often.
Prithee my Deare if my love deserue any thing, let me know where thou art,
how thou dost, and when I may comfort my languishing and sorrowful heart
with hopes to see thee thou never wentest away from me so, but wouldest tell
me some time of returne. For my part I take God to witness I am very restles,
discontented and cannot tell by what means to injoy any thing of my selfe
without thee. I know not and that grieves mee whether this will come to thy
hand, if it doenot what shall I doe, oh that I might injoy thee one night instead
of every nights dreames on thee. I confes I live a most wretched comfortless
solitary and indeed heartles life. Oh that my heart should have such a fresh
spring of love, so lasting, and so coming after its deare Jewell & not decay!
Truly it makes me astonished and amazed at my selfe. I could (but that
experience too sadly convincedth me) have believed it impossible love could
after so many sharp incourters, so many grand repulses, remaine unconquered
imperfection of it first springing. But God knows I know not any
thing thou canst doe to me, or against me, can subdue it. It hath been used
too barbarously and heathenishly, yet it is not offended, & that addeth to my
misery. My love me thinks tis too unnaturall to render contempt for love,
slighting for a deare affection. Thou know it how boundless my love hath
been, how unfeigned I need not here rehearse, and how durable the weariness
of my many & great repulses too much to testify. Is there noe reward for
vertue? Is there no jewell transparent but gold? Ah my Dear Heart consider
how many have been ruined by breaking their engaged faith & promise there
is a time for every thing and certainly if thou wast afraid of God's Judgements
in poor Mr Harding's case I know not how it can be otherwise, may I believe
tis much worse in mine: for I suppose he might in proces of time have married
another, I must not. Thou wouldst be accounted iust in thy dealing, I pray
God give thee a heart to be so to me but yet I believe never poor lover had
more iniury and harder dealing than I have. Good my Dear Heart think upon
me, and consider what I suffer for thy sake, poise the burden that lies on my
heart but in thy thoughts, make but my case thine a little & weigh it in equity
and doe not let all my life be spent in sorrows, and all comforts taken from me
att all my Daies. I would I could but send thee one of my present bitter
groanes or that thou mightest but for the twinkling of an eye feel my aking
heart, surely thy closed nature could not but relent and a little dissolve from
its frozen hardnes. The God of Heaven mollify thy hard hart and make it
more naturall and not so stony to me. I know thou expectest mercy at Gods
hands (which I pray God grant in the hour at death & day of Judgement) but
how canst though looke for any & exercise so much cruelty and falseness.
Indeed if there were not another world it would not at all matter what our
actions were, but my Love there will be atime of searching all the secrets of
our hearts, no covers nor pretences can cloake us from the all seeing eye of
God. Didst thou ever read or canst thou believe faithless & merciles shall find
mercy without repentance or amendment? Thous hast separated mee from
the society of men & from thy presence I must be excluded. What heart is able
to beare and endure these, this hard measure and not complain? Or who can
undergo so great a punishment. Where poor Mr Harding had one trouble I
must have 20. The God of heaven some way put an end to my wretchedness
or my life or some way helpe me. I am not able to sustaine this cruelty. Poor
I that want nothing can be laid to my charge, but that I am not borne toa
great inheritance, that only abound in love and poverty, the last [word lost]
the former filthy and of noe beauty. A better fortune [may] make a lesser love
far more worthy in thy eyes, have a better lustere though never to good a
relish. I waited a Saturday [to see] poor little Bab but when I consider her
parting from mee [words lost] it even makes me curse the day of my birth &
the hour when it was said a son is borne. She cald moda, moda, moda*
{words lost] shall not do away! Truly I am not satisfied at her [word lost]
though I found the old woman having her on her knee, but the house is old
& the roofe is much unthatcht and open to the cold & raine. Good dear heart
therefore take some care of thy deare babe she yet complains of her poor
belly, but is merryish & something chearfull [words illegible] a teach as well
as she can speake, & I beseech & conjured thee to returne home again thy
business being dispatcht that was undertaken and make noe quivocations
with my poor heart, nor delaies to take care of thy dear Image. I would to
god either time or sorrow would cut the thred of my dismall dayes, or
consummate the ioys & desires of my too much abjured though yet valient
heart, No more now.

From that hand whose guide

is clouded with tears to thinke

of thy cruelty, yet must ever be
thine till he be not
Richard Hartshorne,

For my much honoured and very good friend Mrs Barbara Harding, these in
London"	Wooing Barbara Holman	ENGLISH	1025		"For my much honoured and very good friend Mrs Barbara Harding, these in
London"			RICHARD HARTSHORNE	BARBARA HARDING-HOLMAN	MALE	FEMALE	1622	1600-1640	1622	1600-1640	SUITOR	FALSE	TRUE			0	FALSE	"""RICHARD HARTSHORNE"", ""BARBARA HARDING-HOLMAN"""
j_25	ESRO FRE 5270	[25] Richard Hartshorne to Barbara Harding (previously Holman), undated. Original letter.	55	Richard Hartshorne	My Hard Deare Heart	"Thy Poor distressed but ever
Loyall servant"					"My Hard Deare Heart

I have received thy deare & bitter lines, would to God they were not so deare
to mee, then should I not meake and worthless, naked and unarmed be continually
necessitated to assault an invincible Castle fortified with stone walls,
harder than Adament stronger than marble through which there is noe gate,
no entrance, so high, no accesse, nay and which is far worse, might be betrayed
with gold, cannot be won with virtue. Wilt thou never assuage this scorching
flame? Hast thou only added fewell to make a sacrifice? If it were ligated what
more comfortable? continually fed, what more cruell? Oh that I had any thing
but bitterness, teares, & a broken heart to send thee: I would I had the
treasures of the Indians to make access for my Petition or the fortune of ten
thousand [words illegible] than I for my succes. But thou hast only loved mee
to make me miserable, a byword
and a spectacle which my misery too sadly
proves, wert thou not mine by the comfort of thy fond dear Heart (how often
given I shall not say) I would ingeniously acknowledge my importunity presumption
and more then [word illegible] but what is freer then gifts? or what
can be more mine owne then what is freely given? Nay and if thou avert not
that inestimable Pearle farre above the worth of this faire world. I should not
account thee worth my seeking. but alas my dull pen cannot describe thy
Deare value that my forlorne and dying heart hath put upon thee. If I had
only Complements to devise my fancy might be undervalued by its invention
but I have nothing but faithlessnes & broken promises to breake my broken
heart. Oh that it might be broken at once for all, that I might once put an end
to my grevious & just complaint! Could I have found any meanes to quench
this burning flame, I would not send to thee who wilt rather suffer my to dye
for thirst then give a drop of water to coole my scorched heart. If thou
enduredst such a captivity so cruel a prison, so bad companions, and with all
soe continually inbittered with most exquisite Torment thou wouldst thinke it
were more then barbarous, more cruel then heathenish, more savage then
bestiall. but I, poor I, have lost my Reason, the guide of my life, my liberty,
the inioyment of my selfe, my hopes, the comfort of my beeing, what have
then I left but a life not worth the name. I am sure death is a thousand times
more acceptable to mee then anything I enioy.

If others covet thee, thou art pleased to say thou wilt not forget what is
betwixt thy selfe & me, alas, if thou deny them, am I any better than they?
And have not they as much as I nay more they are at liberty, so am not I, they
may make a new choice, so cannot I, they may have many, I must not have
one, mine owne. Surely thy thoughts are very bad of mee and thy love very
small to mee to say I may make a new choyce when thou knowest I am bound
under an eternall course to marry none but thy deare selfe. It is not a wife, nor
a woman that I so much dote upon a tis none but thee who to me art the
quintessence of all thy sexe, who though thou art so cruell wouldst give my
soule to Hell, God I hope will have more mercy for it. But why (if it be lawfull
to expostulate) didst thou urge me to engage my selfe by tongue, who was thy
own in heart long before and told thee I rather desired to doe it my [word
illegible] as thou knowest to this day, and now thus to sleight all my love, to
eat up all thy promises in effect, and pretend to give me my liberty againe
prithe tell me, can a man hanged dead have his life restored? but be it soe, twas
thy will. I satisfied it and it had satisfied mee had it been the same as I have
been, had it been true as I have been to the swearing away of my life, my
misery will never redound to thy honour, nor the breach of thy promises
make thee happy. For I beseech thee consider thy dealing with me, than
knowest none hath above one heart (but thy selfe) how long thou hast had 2
thou art not ignorant, doe but tell me then with what I shall love another
woman? Besides have I had so good success that if I were at liberty I could
hope to be more fortunate. God blesse me till then and not longer. But alas
my Dear Heart tis nothing for thee to bid one leaden to run that cannot go. I
am sure thou wast pleased in thy deare arms to call me husband, before I
durst dare to honour my selfe with the name of wife. But I perceive thy [word
illegible] is apart of thy selfe subject to forget what it loves not, & very to
continue in the contrary. I visit thy Dear Bab last Saturday that I might kisse
mine owne. Why dost thou tell me thou canst not satisfy my Love God hath
made thee willing, there wants nothing but performance. Thou toldst me
thou marriedst twice against thy will why not a third time to thy poor friend?
See if thou canst perswade thy hard heart a little to relent and with mee I beg
of as for my life a faster hand since (my heart) thou thinkst I deserve thee for
my love before the God of Heaven conscious of my love & thy promises I beg,
beg & beseech thee let me be once rewarded with that treasure which I am
devoted to serve and honour to the breathing out of my last gasps, which if
this may not be I pray the God of Heaven put an end to my long lingering
sorrowes & give thee peace and forgive thy hard dealing to

Thy Poor distressed but ever

Loyall servant

Richard Hartshorne

These for my dear but unkind Mrs Barbara Harding"	Wooing Barbara Holman	ENGLISH	1060		These for my dear but unkind Mrs Barbara Harding			RICHARD HARTSHORNE	BARBARA HARDING-HOLMAN	MALE	FEMALE	1622	1600-1640	1622	1600-1640	SUITOR	FALSE	TRUE			0	FALSE	"""RICHARD HARTSHORNE"", ""BARBARA HARDING-HOLMAN"""
j_26	ESRO FRE 4816	[26] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 17 October 1668. Original letter.	60	Sa: Jeake	Lo: sonne	Your ever lo: father	"Rye Oct 17"" 1668"			Hunter and Gregory, Astrological Diary, 61.	"Lo: sonne
...expect you render me an Accompt that is what you lay out for clothes, &
pay to any by my Order, you should have paid all the expenses of your journey
because Thomas went with you for company, when you send my watch buy a
penny boxe fit to put him in & so seale the boxe & let Thomas either bring it
in his pocket or else put it up in the Trowzes in the boxe you carried up. Here
inclosed is one of your cuffes forgot to be put up. Remember me to your
uncle, Aunt, cosin Anne, Samuel, & to Thomas. Had you a Horse there I
could afford you should go to Maidstone with your cosin but you have none
& besides if you go then you must come back alone which I do not like you
should. Mr Wightman wrot to me to let you go to Maidstone but I have
answered him that you being gone to London the day I had his letter I could
not see how with conveniency you could, tell Thomas his mother remembers
her love to him & she saieth Mrs Grebell desires him to buy her two pound of
Ginger bread & she also desires him to buy her some, she remembers to you,
your Aunt and cosin, pray have a care of your selfe and take heed of being out
late alone or going crosse the Thames in foule weather, much desiring your
wellbeing in this world & in that which is to come I remaine

Your ever lo: father

Sa: Jeake
Rye Oct 17"" 1668

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br Bonnick's House in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	288		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br Bonnick’s House in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall these."		1668	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_27	ESRO FRE 4817	[27| Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 24 October 1668. Original letter.	61	Sa: Jeake.	Lo: sonne	"your very lo: father
Thomas Shoosmith & his mother remember to you."""	"Rye October 24"""" 1668."				"Lo: sonne
Yours by Thomas who is well come home this night with my watch & your
Accompt I have received. I am well satisfied with what you laid out. The other
monies keepe in your hands till I or you have occasion for it, what you have
occasion to lay out for necessaries or other wise to good uses I shall not be
against I intend to writ more largely to you some time next weeke. The charge
of the letters set downe to my Accompt for I do not pay here because they
should come the better to your hands. My love to you & prayers for you, your
uncle, Aunt & cosin Sam. That is all from
your very lo: father
Sa: Jeake.
Rye October 24"""" 1668.

Thomas Shoosmith & his mother remember to you.""

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	155		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1668	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_28	ESRO FRE 4818	[28] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 26 October 1668. Original letter.	61	Sa: Jeake	Sonne	Your lo: father	"Rye Oct 26"""	1668		"""There were two families called Shoosmiths in Rye at the time of the 1660 Demobilisation Tax,
both headed by widows. It is assumed that Jeake refers to Mary Shoosmith, the widow of a tailor,
Nicholas Shoosmith, who lived in Middlestreet Ward near the Jeakes. There is no mention of her
son in this record, indicating that he was under the age of 16 at the time the tax was collected.
Mary was assessed at the basic rate suggesting she had no taxable real or personal estate.
Burchall, 'Inhabitants of Rye', 105, 107."	"Sonne
My love to you, your unckle & Aunt. Thomas Shoosmith remembers to you
& them & desires you to deliver these inclosed to the man he had his hoe of. I
am in hast but your cosins remember to you.
Rye Oct 26""

1668

Your lo: father
Sa: Jeake

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	66		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall."		1668	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_29	ESRO FRE 4819	[29] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 6 November 1668. Original letter.	62	Sa: Jeake.	My deare child	Your truly lo: father	"Rye Nov 6"" 1668"			"*Richard Hartshorne, schoolmaster father of Elizabeth, Samuel junior's future wife.
*Probably A true & faithful relation of what passed for many yeers between Dr. John Dee ... and
some spirits (London, printed by D. Maxwell for T. Garthwait, 1659)."	"My deare child
Yesternight I received yours by Mr Cadman & thereby perceive you had my
former lines which I did feare were miscarried as I wrot you in the letter I sent
yesterday to the posthouse before I had yours. This night by post I have your
other letter, I am sorry to heare your Aunt continues ill. I hope this may find
her somewhat better I hope she is not dangerous. Thos: Gram: Ling Hebrae
before the fire in London cost betweene .3s. & 4s. Mr Hartshorne"" gave full 4s
for his as he told me if you have a desire to one you may buy one. The Relation
of Dr Dees actions with spirits* I have seene and by what I have elswhere met
with of the Dr it is as much like him as an Apple, an Oyster. If Mr Gingey will
buy the part of the vessel hee late sailed in or any other of his friends & pay
you thirty pounds sterl[ing] as you write I am content to sell and shall signe &
seale a bill of sale for an Eight part of her & so pray acquaint him but I expect
ready money downe at the sale. Remember me to him his wife & her mother
& other friends that you see at any time aske after me as if named deliver the
inclosed to Mr Boys when you have sealed it. Present my love to your uncle,
Aunt & cosin with my hearty desires & prayers for all their & your welfare
sxpecting to heare how you enjoy your health in body & minde I remaine
Your truly lo: father
Sa: Jeake.
Rye Nov 6"" 1668

As soone as you have received this letter if in the day time go to Mr Bourbes
and shew him the bill & if he accept it & pay not the Tenne pounds presently
let him underwrite I accept this Bill and subscribe his name & advise me the
first post if he accept or pay the money. When you have the money I would
have you pay the Tenne pounds to Mr William Sleed at the Red Lion in
Southwarke an ironmonger and take an acquittance of him thus
Received Nov: 1668 of Mr Jeake of Rye bythe handsofhis £ s d
sonne Samuel Jeake the sume of Tenne pounds sterling for 10: 00: 00
the use of & by the order of Mr Henry Wightman of

Maidstone

I say received as aforesaid
Send me the Acquittance put in the day when you pay it.

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	448		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	"As soone as you have received this letter if in the day time go to Mr Bourbes
and shew him the bill & if he accept it & pay not the Tenne pounds presently
let him underwrite I accept this Bill and subscribe his name & advise me the
first post if he accept or pay the money. When you have the money I would
have you pay the Tenne pounds to Mr William Sleed at the Red Lion in
Southwarke an ironmonger and take an acquittance of him thus
Received Nov: 1668 of Mr Jeake of Rye bythe handsofhis £ s d
sonne Samuel Jeake the sume of Tenne pounds sterling for 10: 00: 00
the use of & by the order of Mr Henry Wightman of
Maidstone
I say received as aforesaid
Send me the Acquittance put in the day when you pay it."	1668	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_30	ESRO FRE 4820	[30] Samuel Jeake junior to Samuel Jeake senior, 10 November 1668. Original letter.	63	Samuel Jeake junior	Dearest father,	Your most obedient son	London, 10 November 1668			"* John Bulwer, Pathomyotamia, or, A dissection of the significative muscles of the affections of the
minde (London: Printed by W.W. for Humphrey Moseley, 1649); Hunter et al, A Radical's Books,
289.
John Allin, former vicar of Rye."	"London, 10 November 1668

Dearest father,

Two letters of yours to me, dated 5 and 6 November, were brought to me
today at around 10 o'clock in the morning. These, indeed, thankfully arrived.
For I feared that either my or your previous letters had perished on the way.
May favour be present with health, and I cordially desire for you the same
mercy, But if I shall ever have been ill, I will most speedily send you word,
{and] I pray that in this case, may it be far from me to neglect or scorn your
love. Such thoughts had never entered into my mind, nor (by God's grace)
will they enter. I have heard no word of the plague since the arrival of Thomas
Shoosmith. I have seen a bill of mortality in which none died of the plague.
Although the bill does not engender much faith, I heard from D. Martin
(with Thomas Shoosmith present) that two had died. Today I asked uncle; he
did not swear that a boy died in this parish when Thomas Shoosmith was
accompanying me. After this I have heard nothing. Aunt is waiting for Mary
Key, who has now recovered. Uncle also greets you. My cousin is well. I
bought Buxton's Treasury of Volsius' Rhetoric concerning the size of the kernel
of Amosius, 559 pages, and John Bulwer's Pathomyatomia, a small octavo, 240
pages, and 6s. 6d. I set out for D. Gingey and spoke to his wife. She said that
if I send a bill of sale, this would be payment for a thirtieth part of a ship. I
handed over the letter to Mr Boys. He will send you a reply. I have received
£10 from Mr Boucker; I have seen M. W. Stedd at whose instruction I have
released £10 to his servant, [and] introduced the receiver of his letter. I saw
Mr Allin. Friendly greetings to T. Shoosmith, with [his] mother etc.

Lask your prayers as well for my soul as for my body; I remain desirous of
hearing of your safety; I have written very hurriedly.

Your most obedient son

Samuel Jeake junior"	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	LATIN & ENGLISH	356				1668	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	1623	1600-1640	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"""
j_31	ESRO FRE 4821	[31] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 12 November 1668. Original letter.	65	Sa: Jeake	Loving sonne	Your truly lo: Father	"Rye Nov 12"""	1668		"*A hoy was a 'small vessel, usually rigged as a sloop, and employed in carrying passengers and
goods, particularly in short distances on the seacoast
', OED.
*Probably Thomas Shoosmith and his mother."	"Loving sonne

My love to you, your uncle Aunt, cosin & other friends & am glad to heare of
your health. Yours of the 10"" instant received with the Receit you sent for the
£10. you received of Mr Bourbes & paid Mr Sledd for your cosin Wightman.
I have here inclosed sent a Bill of Sale to Mr Gingey and when you deliver it
& have the £30. you may pay the same .£30. to Mr Sledd also and take such
an Acquittance as you did before and send me. Mr Boys hath writ me that he
will pay me £20. of the .£100. he owes me. So when you see him you may tell
him that I desire he would pay it to you & when you have it I will direct you
how to dispose of it. You may give Mr Boys a receit thus:

Received Nov. .th 1668 of Mr Joseph Boys by the order & Lae Siemed
for the use of my Father Twenty pounds sterling in part 20: 00: 00
of the Hundred pounds due from that said Mr Boys to

my Father. I say received as aforesaid

The last Monday was put aboard Mr White bound for London a bundle of
Mary Keys clothes to be brought to your uncles, and a basket of Apples
which the widdow Winterburne sent you, have acare of the basket & if Mr
White come hither send the basket againe by him if not by the next boate of
Rye that comes home. Thomas White said he would bring them to you. I did
put aboard the Barque 4 Trunks to be sent to Maidstone to your cosins but
they you need not speake of for he is to put them aboard a Maidstone Hoye
but if there should be none there pray your Aunt to get some place to get
them in neere the waterside till some Hoye comes up when your cosin
Wightman shall appoint to take them in. I am in hast but abide
Rye Nov 12""
Your truly lo: Father1668
Sa: Jeake

The old woman & her son"" with other your friends remember to you

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	379		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	"The old woman & her son"" with other your friends remember to you"	1668	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_32	ESRO FRE 4822	[32] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 26 November 1668. Original letter.	66	Sa: Jeake	My Child	"Your lo: father
Mr Marshall Mr Miller & Mrs Mr Boys Mr Frith,"" Mrs & Frank Sarke, Edw.
Newton, Tho. Carew & [word illegible] Tho. Shoosmith & his mother remember
to you."	Rye Nov 26th	1668			"My Child
Yours of the 21"" & 24"" instant I have received & am glad you have received
the £30 & paid it as I ordered. I wish that part of Mr Bennetland's vessel were
as well sold when you heare he is come home write me word, & if you heare
of any that would buy such a part I have but a 1/16 of that send me word &
do your endeavour to put it off. I have not yet seene R Frebody since he was
with you. What Graving tooles you have a minde to you may buy but you
were best buy them with handles for you cannot well use them without when
you receive the £20. of Mr Boys pray Tenne pounds thereof to Mr Sledd for
your Cosin Wightman & take an Acquittance as far as the former summes
paid & send me if I could tell how to get your cosin Mary up or had knowne
of your Cosin Wightmans coming to London she should have gone up with
him. But I do intend ere long to get her up one way or other remember me to
your Aunt uncle cosin & other friends. I am in hast but abide
Your lo: father
Sa: Jeake
Rye Nov 26th
1668

Mr Marshall Mr Miller & Mrs Mr Boys Mr Frith,"" Mrs & Frank Sarke, Edw.
Newton, Tho. Carew & [word illegible] Tho. Shoosmith & his mother remember
to you.

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	261		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall."		1668	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_33	ESRO FRE 4823	[33] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 10 December 1668. Original letter.	66	Sa: Jeake	Lov: sonne,	Your lo: Father	"Rye Dec 10"""	1668		*Philip Frith, primary correspondent of John Allin and Samuel senior.	"Lov: sonne,

Yours I received last post with the Acquittance for the .£10. paid Mr Ellis &
seeing Mr Bennetland is come home I doe intend to writ to him when I heare
what answere hee gives you if you can speake to him, but it is to little end to
speake to his wife. If you can get some candied cowslips or conserve of them
you may buy some and eate in a morning before breakfast they are good for
your head. I suppose you have heard that Henry Man is lost coming from
Diepe on the 24"" of October last but how none of them in the vessel lived to
tell, nor where can yet be discovered. Your calls you wrot me in your former
from heaven are to be harkened to & so farre from grounds of discouragment
that they provoke to runn the faster, God hath not yet done calling. Behold
now is the acceptable time, & this the day of salvation, to day therefore heare
his voice, get a true sight of sinne & a hatred of it & holy purposes & earnest
prayers against it & although an answer come not presently yet every delay is
not a deniall God will come & tarry not. Looke into the freeness of grace in
the Gospell tendered to unworthy soules, thiefe sinners &c. who have no
money or prize in their hands to buy or purchase & if you can do no more yet
hope, and wait for God hath promised to be gracious to the soule that waiteth
for him he knows our strength & remembers that we are but dust & he will not
contend for ever, we are not choise of mercy because we believe are holy &c
but because we should believe & be holy being chosen thereunto. In all with
Gods free grace and Christs free laying downe his life even when we were
enemies do sufficiently demonstrate our inability & insufficiencie to procure
merit purchase worke out or deserve our owne salvation & if so why should
you or any other that is sensible of sinne & brought into a longing after &
loving of Jesus Christ thinke your selves excluded. Where hath God excluded
any that are become willing to be divorced from their sinnes and married to
their saviour? That God hath touched your heart is good, that he will heal it
as well as wound it I doubt not, & if he hide his face some time he will after
two daies revive & you shall live in his sight. Remember me to your uncle
Aunt &c. Farewell in hast
Rye Dec 10""
Your lo: Father1668
Sa: Jeake

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	468		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1669	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_34	ESRO FRE 4824	[34] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 17 December 1668. Original letter.	67	Sa: Jeake	Lov: sonne	Your truly lo: fatherSeverall remember to you besides the old woman & her sonne.	"Rye Dec: 17"""	1668		"* William Lilly, Astrologer (160281)
. Patrick Curry, 'Lilly, William (16021681)
', ODNB. The
Jeake library contained Lilly's Almanacks for the years from 164564
and 1681, along with other
works by the author. Hunter ef al., Radical's Books, 31011;
1423.
* John Gadbury, Astrologer (16271704)
. Patrick Curry, 'Gadbury, John (16271704)
', ODNB.
The Jeake library likewise contained a series of Gadbury's Almanacks, along with numerous
other works by the author. Hunter et al., Radical's Books, 3089;
1023.
» Probably either Gervase Markham, How to chuse, ride, trayne, and dyet, both huntinghorses
and
running horses vvith all the secrets thereto belonging discovered (London, printed by E. Allde for
Ed. White, 1606) STC 17350 or the abridged version: Gervase Markham, The complete farriar, or
The kings highway
to horsemanship (London, printed by I. Dawson for R. Young, 1639) STC
17341.
*Jakob Bohme [Jacob Behman] Mysterium magnum, or An exposition of the first book of Moses
called Genesis (London, printed by M. Simmons for H. Blunden, 1654).
* Christopher Blackwood published a variety of works on spiritual matters. Richard L. Greaves,
'Blackwood, Christopher (1607/81670)
, ODNB. The Jeake library contained several of
Blackwood's publications. Hunter et al. Radical's Books, 245.
"	"Lov: sonne

Yours of the 15"" instant I received & am glad to heare of your health your
Aunt & Relacions with you. I did write to you by Jn° Hounsell which I suppose
by this may come to your hands. Mr White by reason of the foule weather is
not yet arrived at Rye but I hope well in the Downes. If any of Lillies
Almonacks"" do come out buy a couple & one of Gadburyes & send by the
carrier. George Marsoone desired me to write to you to enquire among the
Stationers for a little book called the Kings high way treating of the cure of
seven diseases in Horses commonly counted incurable"" & if it be of small
price to buy it & send it, if of high price send the price downe before you buy
it. Mr Hartshorne desires you to enquire for Behmens Mysterium Magnum""
& his three principles & the lowest price & send word accordingly. Also
Mr Shinner desires you to enquire the price of your uncle Blackwood's*
book which J have being an exposition of the first ten chapters of Matthew
be carefull of your selfe in taking cold this wet weather. I have this weeke
given order by Letter to cosin Wightman to carry Mary Key up to you which
I would have done before if I could have sent to him but had no opportunity
of writing. Remember me to your uncle Aunt cosin & friends. I am in hast
but abide
Rye Dec: 17""
Your truly lo: father1668
Sa: Jeake

Severall remember to you besides the old woman & her sonne.

To his lov: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	290		"To his lov: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1668	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_35	ESRO FRE 4825	[35] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 24 December 1668. Original letter.	69	Sa: Jeake	Lov: sonne,	Your lo: fatherIf any news worth communicating at any time you may write.	"Rye Dec. 24"""	1668			"Lov: sonne,

My love to you, your uncle Aunt & cosin, I have received yours of the pons
instant, and it seems John Hounsell did not go so soone as I expected by reason
the weather was so bad, but when he comes up he will give you the Letter.
I do not remember that I wrot to you for Erastus, The nullity of church censures
yet if it be not too great of price you may buy it. You writ not any thing
whether you have spoken to Mr Bennetland so I have forborne writing till I
heare from you. Thomas Shoosmith remembers to you also his mother & she
intends next weeke to send you a Goose for a token & she would have you call
for it on Thursday morning (this day sennight) at Mr Joseph Boys to whom
commend me. Mr White came not in this harbor till this day. I have not yet
seene him, with my prayers for you I rest
Rye Dec. 24""
Your lo: father1668
Sa: Jeake

If any news worth communicating at any time you may write.

To his lov: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	203		"To his lov: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1668	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_36	ESRO FRE 4826	[36] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 30 December 1668. Original letter.	69	Sa: Jeake	Lo: sonne	Your very lo: father	"Rye Dec 30"""	1668			"Lo: sonne

Yours of the 29"""" I have just now received & having opportunity by Mr White
I have wrot these to let you know I am indifferent in health & am glad to
heare of yours. I have put aboard W Oake who is bound for London a little
fardell of your cosin Mary's clothes & a bagg of nutts that George Marsoone
hath sent you who remembers to you when he comes up you may call aboard
of him & take them. Pray tell your Aunt that I have received the coat and the
old woman hath offered it to sell & cannot be bid above seven shillings for it
great fault is found that the moths have beene in it & it is threadbare before,
now your order being not to sell it under .9s. it must be sent backe againe
unless she will take 7s which I desire to know by the first opportunity. The 2
Bibles you write of if you thinke good you may buy. Yet if they be both alike

""Thomas Erastus, The Nullity of Churchcensures:
Or A Dispute (London, printed for G.L.,
1659); Hunter et al., Radical's Books, 801.
one will serve. I would faine you should write me a line or two how you like
your being in London & if you have any disrellishment in your Quarters. I
pray remember me to your uncle Aunt cosin & other friends. I wish well to
you all write me when Mr Martin comes home. I wish you could heare of one
that would buy the part of Mr Bennetlands vessell I must be content to come
off at loss with his dishonesty. Mr Boys the old woman & her sonne & others
remember to you, I am
Rye Dec 30""
Your very lo: father1668
Sa: Jeake

To his lov: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	321		"To his lov: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1668	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_37	ESRO FRE 4827	[37] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 14 January 1668/9. Original letter.	70	Sa: Jeake	"Lov: sonne ;"	"Your truly lo: fatherTho Crouch"" the old woman & her sonne with others remember to you."	"Rye Jan 14"""	1668/9		"""Copies of the Protestant Almanack from 1668 and 1669 were noted in the Jeake Library
catalogue. Hunter et al., Radical's Books, 31011.
'Possibly The Nullity of Church Censures noted above.
Possibly Secrets reveal'd, or an open entrance to the shutplace
of the king, authorship unclear
but noted in Hunter et al., Radical's Books, 2801.
"	"Lov: sonne ;
My love to you, your uncle Aunt & Cosins, I have received yours of the 12""
instant, I hope your Cosin Mary is well after her Journey. I have shewed Mr
Hartshorne what you wrot who desires you to buy the two Bookes for .32s.
seeing you cannot have them under & keepe them till some Barque of our
Towne comes downe to Rye & put them aboard to bring to me in your Buying
them see they be perfect. I shall willingly joyne with Mr Martin in what he
doeth concerning Mr Bennetlands vessell & thinke it will be little end to write
to him seeing he refuseth to give Mr Martin an accompt. I have received of
Mr White the Prot: Almanack"" & Erastus."" The Booke called Secrets
revealed"" if of any biggness may be worth .18d. you may buy & send it when
you have opportunity if Mr Frith should not like it, it is no great matter.
Marke Chiswell I understand cannot yet deliver because of the [word illegible
] You may let me know what money you have yet in your hands, your
writing & Latine in some things want excuse, I hope you enjoy your health,
you writ me not whether the noise in your head continue I am in hast but wish
you well & abide.
Rye Jan 14""
Your truly lo: father1668/9
Sa: Jeake
Tho Crouch"" the old woman & her sonne with others remember to you.

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	265		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1669	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_38	ESRO FRE 4828	[38] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 21 January 1668/9. Original letter.	71	Sa: Jeake	My Child	Your lo: father	"Rye Jan 21"""	1668/9		"""There were at least two individuals named Thomas Crouch living in Rye according to the 1660
Demobilisation Tax record. One was Thomas Crouch, leader of the Court party in Rye, who
went on 'in an insolent and Violent manner' to usurp the mayoralty of the town in 1681. The
Thomas Crouch referred to here is more likely to have been apprentice to the barbersurgeon
Edward Gee, Burchall, 'Inhabitants of Rye', 1028;
Hunter and Gregory, Astrological Diary, 31,
57."	"My Child

Yours last post I received & am glad to heare of your health. I have wrot to
Marke Chiswell to go along with you to Mr Salter & receive for me £3 for
which you may give an Acquittance thus

Received Nov. .th 1668 of Mr Joseph Boys by the order & ="" S @
Received January ..th 1668 of Mr George Salter Three 03: 00: 00
pounds for one yeares interest of fifty pounds due in August

last from the said Mr Salter & Mr Edw: Nunne I say

received for the use of my Father Mr Sa: Jeake of Rye

And putting in the date when you receive it subscribe it. I understand Marke
Chiswell comes home so you may now put aboard the Mortar & Mr
Hartshornes bookes but direct them to you me. I am willing to allow your
uncle fifty shillings for your quarters board if that do not give content lay
them downe more for you shall be no charge to them. I cannot heare that
France is yet cleare of the pest but I had rather you would get a Frenchman
that [is in] London to teach you for there be them that teach the French
tongue there, and then if you should be ill I can be with you. But I am in hast
at present & with my love to you & all friends with you remaine
Rye Jan 21""
Your lo: father1668/9
Sa: Jeake

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	263		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1669	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_39	ESRO FRE 4829	[39] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 28 January 1668/9. Original letter.	72	Sa: Jeake	Lov: sonne,	Your very lo: father	"Rye January 28"""	1668/9		"""Lionel Lockyer (c.160072)
, famous for his 'miracle' remedies. A. S. Hargreaves, 'Lionel
Lockyer (160072)
& his Pillulae Radiis Solis Extractae', Pharm Hist (London), 29 (1999),
5563.
This does not appear in the Jeake Library catalogue. Hunter ef al., Radical's Books."	"Lov: sonne,

Yours last post I received as also one from Mr Martin concerning Mr
Bennetland & when you see Mr Martin thanke him & let him know I shall
joyne with him at any time to put out such a dishonest man as Mr Bennetland
is if Marke Chiswell be not come away if he be by any vessel of Towne that
comes home send mea dozen of parchment, if you know not where to buy it
Mr Boys will direct you or buy it for you. W"" Harnet desired me to write to
you to buy him a boxe of Lockyers pills""! a whole boxe will cost 4s & they be
to be had at the Three Boares Heads over against the meale market in
Southwarke you need have no booke of directions how to use them for he
hath a booke already this little boxe if Mr Boys send any thing to his Father
or Br Curtis he may put it up in it, if not when you have any opportunity you
may send it by Boat or otherwise. Although I have declared that you would
have nothing sent you yet I understand Mrs Curtis will send you something
next weeke & seeing she will I have ordered a Capon sent me to be put up with
it so on Thursday morning next weeke call to Mr Boys for it & tell your Aunt
I have sent her the Capon. You have not deducted out of the money in your
hands your owne .16s, 6d. which I did formerly order you & you may do &
nore if you have occasion. I suppose Wm Oake is now come to London
aboard of whom are your nutts & a bundle of Mary's clothes as I wrot you
formerly. Pray desire your Aunt keepe an Accompt particularly of what she
layes out for Mary for her clothes & such things as she wants & tell Mary that
I charge her to be a good girle. I suppose your cosin Wightman brought up
such clothes of Mary's as were at Maidston. The little Booke of Tho Savage*
I have seene. Have a care of your health. With my love to you, your Aunt &

cosins I remaineRye January 28""
Your very lo: father
1668/9
Sa: Jeake

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	403		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1669	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_40	ESRO FRE 4830	[40] Samuel Jeake junior to Samuel Jeake senior, 9 February 1668/9. Original letter.	73	Samuel Jeake junior	Dearest father,	"Farewell, desirous of your health,
Your most obedient son"	London, 9 February 1668/9				"London, 9 February 1668/9

Dearest father,

After the due greetings to you and all our friends, know by these lines which
are scribbled down for you in this time that we have received the capon from
you to Aunt, and the guineafowl sent to me by Mr Curtis. Aunt thanks you
for the capon and greets you; I ask that you return my thanks for the guineafowl
in my name to Mr Curtis, whom I also ask you to greet, and to hand over
this enclosed letter, which I send attached and signed by me. Aunt asks me to
write to you whether you have sent us her gown, which she left behind at Rye,
or not, and by whom you have sent it. I have seen Mr White and received from
him a pledge of your love; thank you for this. I have received by the hand of
Mark Chiswell from Mr Salter £3. Greet T. Shoosmith with [his] mother, etc.
I have no more business, but I have not received a letter from you this week.
Farewell, desirous of your health,

Your most obedient son

Samuel Jeake junior"	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	LATIN & ENGLISH	190				1669	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	1623	1600-1640	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"""
j_41	ESRO FRE 4831	[41] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 1] February 1668/9. Original letter.	74	Sa: Jeake	Lov: Sonne	Your lo: father	"Rye Febr 11"""	1668/9			"Lov: Sonne

Thad last night yours of the 9"" instant but perceive thereby you had not my
last for therein I wrot that you could acquaint your Aunt that I had sold her
coat for 9 s which was the most I could get & did order you to pay her the
money, Marke Chiswell is not yet come home by reason of contrary winds. I
did write to you to desire your Aunt to buy Mary a coate & such other things
as she wanted & keepe an accompt thereof. I wonder Cosin Wightman hath
not brought up such clothes as she had at Maidstone for I thinke she had
some with her there, You do not write me that she goes to schoole I would not
have her idle. Remember me to your uncle Aunt & cosins & so in hast
remaineth
Rye Febr 11""
Your lo: father1668/9
Sa: Jeake

To his lo; sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	169		"To his lo; sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1669	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_42	ESRO FRE 4832	[42] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 18 February 1668/9. Original letter.	74	Sa: Jeake	My deare child	"remaine
 Your lo: father"	"Rye Febr 18"""	1668/9			"My deare child

I have yours of the 16"" instant & am very willing you shall take a purge this
spring but yet the weather is too cold. I hope you are well though you do not
write anything thereof. I desire you to go to Mr Allin & receive of him .£3.
according to the receit herein inclosed which I doubt not but he will pay
because he hath wrot to Mr Frith to know to whom he shall pay it. & by the
Post to be here on Wednesday next advise me because I suppose the day after
the party will come to me for the money which J shall pay if I heare you have
Teceived it. Marke Chiswell is now upon coming in & my next I intend shall
give you a accompt of what I have from him. The French schoole at the Spittle
will be too farre off. I wish there were one nearer you. I am in hast at present
but not forgetting my love to you, Mr Allin, your uncle Aunt & cosins, I
remaine
Rye Febr 18""
Your lo: father1668/9
Sa: Jeake

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	208		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1669	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_43	ESRO FRE 4833	[43] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 4 March 1668/9. Original letter.	75		Lov: sonne	Your lo: fatherRemember me to all friends, yours here remember to you.	"Rye Mar 4"""				"Lov: sonne

I forgot in my last in my last to bid you get your watch mended. I am glad by
yours of the 2"" instant to heare your increase in naturall strength if you
thinke you can walke on foote. Tho: Crouch & Tho: Shoosmith will come up
when the footwaies are a little better & then you may come down with them.
Mr Frith hath given me the inclosed note which showes the title of Wrayes
booke that I wrot about before & he also desires you buy the Improvements
of Walker if you can meet with it but if it should bee very deare you were
best to write word of the price first. Mr Hartshorne desire you to enquire of
the price of Pagnino his Hebrew Lexicon* but whether so called or not I well
know not but I thinke it is for I have seene it, it is in folio, & gives the Latine
of the Hebrew words. I am in hast, wish you well and am
Rye Mar 4""
Your lo: father
Remember me to all friends, yours here remember to you.

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnicks house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	205		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnicks house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1669	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_44	ESRO FRE 4834	[44] Samuel Jeake junior to Samuel Jeake senior, 6 March 1668/9. Original letter.	75	Samuel Jeake junior	Dearest father,	Your most obedient son	London, 6 March 1668			"""Probably William Walker, Some improvements to the art of teaching especially in the first
grounding of a young scholar in grammar learning (London, printed by S. Griffin, 1669); Hunter
etal, Radical'y Books, 2501.
""Probably Santes Pagnino [also known as Pagninus or Pagnini], Thesaurus linguae sanctae. See
reference in FRE 4834, This is not recorded in the Jeake Library catalogue. Hunter ef al.,
Radical's Books.
*See fn. 43.
""William Drage, Physical experiments being a plain description of the causes, signes, and cures of
most diseases incident to the body of man (London, Printed for Simon Miller, 1669); Hunter et al.,
Radical's Books, 745,
""See fn. 44.
*'Jeake's statement is unclear. For Coventry's arrest, 3 March 1668/9, and release, 20 March, see
CSPDom: 'Charles I: March 1669"", in Calendar of State Papers Domestic: Charles I, 16689,
ed. Mary Anne Everett Green (London, 1894), pp. 21958.
British History Online http://www.
britishhistory.
ac.uk/calstate
-papers/domestic/chas2/16689
/pp219258
[accessed 28 July 2017]."	"London, 6 March 1668

Dearest father,

Yours dated 4 March were brought to me today. But I think I would rather
walk from London to Rye. And I gladly embrace the proposed partnership
(that is to say, T. Crouch and T. Shoosmith). I have bought two books for Mr
Frith, that is to say Walker's Improvements, Chapter 18 and Drage's
Experiments, Chapter 3. The price of the Thesaurus of Santus Pagninus is
around 30 shillings. The price of his Epitome is around 2 shillings. I hear that
Sir William Coventry has been imprisoned in the Tower because he sought a
duel with the Duke of Buckingham, as I recall. The sword of the Lord Mayor
of London William Turner was defended there/in that matter by force by the
lawyers of the Inner Temple.* Greet our friends by name: Mr Boys, Mr Miller,
Mr Frith, T. Shoosmith, T. Crouch. Aunt and M. Key greet you, etc. Farewell,
and live mindful of us.

Your most obedient son

Samuel Jeake junior"	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	LATIN & ENGLISH	168				1669	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	1623	1600-1640	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"""
j_45	ESRO FRE 4835	[45] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 13 March 1668/9. Original letter.	77	Sa: Jeake	Loy: Sonne	Your lo: father	"Rye March 13"""	1668/9			"Loy: Sonne

Through mercy I am in health & hope you are the same. I have not heard of
you since Lordsday last, & I have beene busie this weeke & little time to write,
nor any great businesse to write to you, only to let you know that I thinke if
the weather hold good, T. C. & T. S."" will come up to London the weeke after
this next that comes in & then if you thinke you can hold out you may come
downe with them, but I shall write to you God willing betweene this & that,
Mr White is not yet come in, remember me to your uncle Aunt & Cosins
wishing you all health & prosperity inwardly & outwardly I remaine
Rye March 13""
Your lo: father1668/9
Sa: Jeake

To his lo: sonne Sam: Jeake at Br: Bonnick's house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	152		"To his lo: sonne Sam: Jeake at Br: Bonnick’s house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1669	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_46	ESRO FRE 4836	[46] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 16 March 1668/9. Original letter.	77	Sa: Jeake	My deare child	Your lo: father	"Rye March 16"""	1668/9		"""Thomas Crouch and Thomas Shoosmith.
""Thomas Crouch and Thomas Shoosmith."	"My deare child

I have this day received from Mr White the piece of Chyrology, scripture
Almanack & Manuscript but have not yet purused any of them. I reckon at
the end of this weeke your friends T C & T S* will be with you and so you
may get all ready to come away the next weeke with them. Pay your uncle for
the time you have beene there since the last quarter you paid & take an acquittance
of him, or your Aunt & take the Accompt with you of what you have
laid out for Mary Key & bring with you & when you have brought any thing
that you want if you have more money spare than will bring you downe you
may pay your uncle what overplus you have towards that accompt of Mary.
If more than the accompt comes to cleare that accompt & leave the residue in
your uncles hands towards the accrewing Arrears. My love to them all, the
Lord be with you & blesse you is the hearty prayer of
Rye March 16""
Your lo: father1668/9
Sa: Jeake

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnickes house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	205		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnickes house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1669	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_47	ESRO FRE 4837	[47| Samuel Jeake junior to Samuel Jeake senior, 18 March 1668/9. Original letter.	78	Samuel Jeake junior	Dearest father,	Your most obedient son	London, 18 March 1668/9			"""John Bulwer, Chirologia: or, The natural language of the hand. Composed of the speaking
motions, and discoursing gestures thereof (London, printed by T. H., 1648); Hunter et al., Radical's
Books, 301.
"	"London, 18 March 1668/9

Dearest father,

I received yours written to me, dated 13 March, by the hand of Mr Miller at
dawn yesterday, and I rejoice to hear of your recovery. When T. S. [Thomas
Shoesmith] and T. C. [Thomas Crouch] arrive I shall be ready (by God's
mercy) to return home with them. Send me, if you please, a word concerning
how I shall send my clothes to Rye. I have sent you for Mr White, Bulwer's
Chirologia (or Natural Language of the Hand) and the calendar entitled The
Scripture Calendar Reviv'd, and finally the manuscript called Considerations
upon the Condition of Christ's Visible Church on Earth; I sent you before, to
send over to uncle, a French hat. I pray you, if you are able, do not send it, or
that (if it should be judged convenient) T. S. may wear such a clean hat on his
head in London, let this one be sold to uncle and let him return home with my
old hat; but I commit it to your prudent wife. Our folks greet you. Greet our
friends by name. I add no more. Farewell.

Your most obedient son

Samuel Jeake junior"	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	LATIN & ENGLISH	198				1669	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	1623	1600-1640	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"""
j_48	ESRO FRE 4838	[48] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 20 March 1668/9. Original letter.	79	Sa: Jeake	My sonne	Your lo: fatherI would not have you come downe to Gravesend in the night.	Rye Mar 20	1668/9			"My sonne

[had yours last post as to the things you have to send downe you may send by
the carrier for I thinke there's no Boats of our Towne at London but it is best
by the carrier. A Hat for your uncle Tho: Shoosmith will bring up as you write
I did minde it before but here hath none or very few come over a great while,
onely Tho: Shoosmith saith he will let your uncle have his. If you had my last
letter you will remember to bring with you what Accompt your Aunt hath for
Mary & leave what money you spare with her. I have wrot to your Cosin at
Maidstone to give you Accompt of what is due to him there, which bring with
you, if you find your selfe weary coming thither, you may hire a horse there.
Pray have a care of going beyond your strength or drinking when you are hot,
except it be hot liquors. Present my love to your uncle, Aunt & Cosins & when
you come away you may give your Cosin Sam: a shilling & the little maide
that was with your Aunt if she be there still six pence or if another be there
the like. I commit you to the blessed protection of the Almighty & remaine
Rye Mar 20
Your lo: father1668/9
Sa: Jeake
I would not have you come downe to Gravesend in the night.

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnicks house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."	Samuel junior in London, October 1668 to March 1669	ENGLISH	259		"To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake at Br: Bonnicks house in Salisbury Lane neere
Redriffe Wall, these."		1669	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	1623	1600-1640	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"""
j_49	ESRO FRE 4841	[49] Samuel Jeake junior to Samuel Jeake senior, 4 June 1672. Original letter.	86	Sa: Jeake	Dear Father	Your obedient son	"London June 4"" 1672"			"*A reference to the Third AngloDutch
War, 167274
and possibly the result of the Battle of
Solebay, 28 May 1672."	"London June 4"" 1672

Dear Father

I have spoken with Mr W Langley who tells me he hath received of Mr Nun
£10 06s due on the bond but could not get him to pay any interest & so
thought it good rather to take this whilst he might have it. The money he
could not pay me (he said) when I spake to him which was May 30"" because
he had not so much in the house, but hath promised I shall without faile have
it next Thursday morning. I could not get him to deduct any thing for his
charge. Yours of May 28"" I received May 31° and the same day presented the
bill, was ordered to come for the money this day morning. I went but Mr
Norton hath put me off till the afternoon & then he promised I shall have it.
I could not get above £3 10s for the Rings & 5s for the spoon. The money I
have received for the Rings, & hope to have of Mr Langley, with what I
brought up will serve to pay off my Aunts accompt of £15 17s 10 'Ad & to
serve my owne occasions & something over. I had wrote you how the price of
Turky work cushions & carpets was but that my Aunt mistook & enquired for
chairs & goeth not out again till to morrow. I heard yesterday by Mr Byndlos
that he saw a Letter for me at the Posthouse but I cannot light upon it nor
hear of it since nor what is become of it & therefore cannot understand
whether you have ordered me any other business or no, for mine is now finished
so as to come away upon a days warning. As for news J cannot write you
so certain as I judge you have already, for reports are to this day infinitely
various, howbeit tis certain that the hospitalls are very full of wounded men.""
Here is not yet any danger of pressing if there be I shall be very carefull of my
selfe nevertheless I would not care how soon I were at home. If there be any
presse I will not lye at my Aunt's:* If you please to speak to the Carrier to
bring me up a horse next week that I may have him next Thursday come sevennight
in the morning. I shall God willing be at Tunbridg the same night, I
am not willing to stay any longer. I intend to lodge there at Petly's at the signe
of the Bull. Tis hoped there will be no pressing yet for severall of the Seamen
are dismissed for the present (till the ships be fitted) & walk the streets daily.
My Aunt remembers her love to you, she is well with my Cousins & selfe
thanks be to God. I have no more but my humble duty to your selfe, love to
friends & Earnest desires of your welfare

Your obedient son

Sa: Jeake

To his honoured Father Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye in Sussex"	Visits to London, 1672-1673	ENGLISH	515		To his honoured Father Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye in Sussex		1669	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_50	ESRO FRE 4842	[50] Samuel Jeake junior to Samuel Jeake senior, 6 June 1672. Original letter.	87	Sa: Jeake, junior	Dear Father	Your obed[ien]t son	"London, June 6"" 1672"			"""Probably referring to his aunt Elizabeth Bonnick. Her husband, Nathaniel, had died in October
1670, She would marry Christopher Dighton, a glazier, in March 1673. Smart, 'Biographical
Sketch', 79,
""Samuel was referring to the indecisive Battle of Solebay off Southwold, 28 May 1672, when the
Royal James was attacked by a fire ship. The Earl was indeed lost, his body was washed ashore
after the battle and he was buried in Henry VIII's chapel in Westminster Abbey. J. D. Davies,
'Montagu, Edward, first earl of Sandwich (16251672)
, ODNB.
""Sir Frescheville Holles, commander of the Cambridge, also killed at the Battle of Solebay. J. D.
Davies, 'Holles, Sir Frescheville (16421672)
, ODNB."	"London, June 6"" 1672

Dear Father

Yours of 1 instant came not to my hands till yesterday; when I had received
(after 3 times attendance) £7 of Mr Norton in payment of the bill, & therefore
shall not now need any of Jn° Swaine. The Guineys I did put away for 21s
6d. we have Enquired the price of Turky work cushions were asked 5s for a
good large one without the back the carpets being different according to their
bigness, As for news of the Fight I have none of the best intelligence the best
accompt I can give concerning the English is that many Commanders are
killed, the Henry 'tis said had not one officer left alive. The E[arl] of Sandwich
most say is lost, his ship the Royal James is agreed on all hands to be burnt.""
Capt Digby, son to the E[arl] of Bristol slain & Sir Freshevile Hollis,* the Ld
Maidstone, & sevral of the Gentry the French they say never came up. The
number of men slain some estimate at 6000 of which almost 1000 in the Royal
James, Here have not been any publick demonstrations of joy shown since the
fight. Of the Dutch I have no certain news. My Aunt hath not heard any thing
of her sonne, but the ship he is in is said to come to Queenborough; I wrote
to you the 4"" instant which I hope you have received but lest it should not
come to your hand pray sir fail not to speak for an horse of the Carrier which
I may have this day sennight, & ride to Tunbridge the same day. I have to day
received the other £5 due on the bill of Mr Norton, who presents his service
to you. But Mr Langley hath disappointed me, I intend to call upon him de
long. We are thanks be to God in health. My Aunt remembers to you, with
my humble duty to your selfe, love to Thomas, his mother &c and desires of
your welfare is all at present from

Your obed[ien]t son

Sa: Jeake, junior

To his honoured Father Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye in Sussex"	Visits to London, 1672-1673	ENGLISH	364		To his honoured Father Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye in Sussex		1672	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	1623	1600-1640	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"""
j_51	ESRO FRE 4843	[51] Samuel Jeake junior to Samuel Jeake senior, 11 June 1672. Original letter.	88	Sa: Jeake	Dear Father 7	"Your obed{ien]t son
Tis said the French have taken Arnhoym and Nimmegen."	"London June 11"" 1672"				"London June 11"" 1672
Dear Father 7
Yours of the 6"" instant received & am glad to hear you had mine of the 4""
since which I wrote you [word lost] the 6"" in answer to yours of the 1"" which
I hope is come safe to your hands. Mr Langley hath not yet paid me ie
money I went thither last Thursday, he was not within, his wife said they had
not so much money then as would pay if off but her husband should bring it
me, yet I question whether I shall have it ere I come away. My Aunt aoa
Sarah remember to you, Cannot hear any news of Cosin Sam: he went in the
Constant Warwick which tis said is come up to the Buoy of the Nore, I intend
(God willing) to be at Tunbridge on Thursday night. Not else but my humble
duty presented to your selfe as being

Your obed{ien]t son

Sa: Jeake

Tis said the French have taken Arnhoym and Nimmegen.

To his honoured Father Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye in Sussex"	Visits to London, 1672-1673	ENGLISH	181		To his honoured Father Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye in Sussex		1672	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	1623	1600-1640	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"""
j_52	ESRO FRE 4844	[52] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 17 July 1673. Original letter.	89	Sa: Jeake	Son,	Your truly lo: father		"July 17""
1673"			"Son,

These are only to let you know I got well to London on Wednesday but when
I shall be at home I cannot well say having some other business then I knew
off ere I came & have some thoughts of going to Maidstone if things concurre
in order thereto remember me to Mr Boys & tell him his son presents
him his duty & is well with his family. His horse will be sold you may tell him
& if he can by any conveniency send me a horse next weeke to Maidstone to
be there on Thursday then I would come thence God willing on Friday if he
cannot [word struck out] send me one to be there accordingly then do you
write me to be here by next post on Monday & speake to Slowman on Monday
to send me up a Horse to be here next Thursday. Tell Mr Miller I thinke I
shall bring home his Rings againe I am offered so little for them remember me
to him & other friends in general as if named. I have no newes to write you
save the story of the press in the countrey was more then I have found here
unlesse for seaman but is less now than formerly ere the fleet was fallen downe
I enquired of Marke Chiswell & he went home the day I came out of Rye, and
I heare hath got his two men released & you may tell Mrs Cadman she may

expect him home the first faire winde. I am in hast but remaine
Southwarke

July 17""
1673

Your truly lo: father
Sa: Jeake

To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake in Rye Sussex"	Visits to London, 1672-1673	ENGLISH	286		To his lo: sonne Samuel Jeake in Rye Sussex		1672	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	1623	1600-1640	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"""
j_53	ESRO FRE 4845	[53] Christopher Blackwood to Samuel Jeake junior, 18 April 1674. Originalletter.	89	Chr: Black[wood]	Lo: Cozin:	"Your assured truely lo:
Excuse the necessary charge of postage for I knew noe other wayes of conveyance
"	"Dublin Aprill the 18"" 1674"				"Dublin Aprill the 18"" 1674

Lo: Cozin:

I have yours per sea of the 6"" Instant which was right truely welcome to mee:
ame heartily Glad to heere of my uncles and your welfare; though truely I
must needs acknowledge my Greate neglect in not paying the tribute of those
Great Kindnesses & favours I am indebted for to your father & selfe in my
thankfull acknowledgements in some lynes unto you; but it was not for want
of any Reall & Cordial respects but onely Loth to putt you to an Extraordinary
Charge haveing onely my hearty wishes to recomend unto you: & the desier
of understanding your welfare.
Since my being with you it hath please God by his providence wonderfully to
blesse mee & direct mee: in my Imployment of Mer Merchandizeing which I
tooke in hand and doe now follow: I am still a single man: & yett in noe
provible way as to my owne Intentions of Changeing my Condition: Though
I doe keepe house & my mother is with mee: & in Good helth who desiers her
hearty recommendations to my unkle & your selfe. I understand your
Intentions as to Asume Merchandize for your Imployment: the Lord direct
you in that which is best, & if you be any ways Intending to Enter Into a
maryed Estate [word struck out] my hearty well wishes Attend you; & as to
your Imployment you Intend: Assure your selfe that if in any respect it Lyes
in my power to serve you: either in these partes or Else where: it shroutd shall
not be wanting to the utmost: & shall bee acknowledged but as a parte retaljation
of those obligations: wherein I stand Ingaged [to] my unkle & your
selfe: & I am suer: [words lost] these partes I am at present as capa[ble] [words
lost] to pleasure you [word illegible] any things you should in joyne mee: as
{word lost] one is: 1 am sorry to heere of the scarcity of Corne with you:
thanks be to God who affords us heere both plenty & liberty to the full. My
brother Timothy wife & children are well & desiers to be kindly recomended
to my unkle & your self with my Reall Service to my unkle & hearty respects
to your selfe: I haveing beene to prolix shfall] not ad but that I am

Your assured truely lo:

Chr: Black[wood]

Excuse the necessary charge of postage for I knew noe other wayes of conveyance
For Mr Samuell Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex, these.
Rye forward per post to Lond 6d."	Samuel’s first ventures into trade, 1674	ENGLISH	436		"For Mr Samuell Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex, these.
Rye forward per post to Lond 6d."		1673	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_54	ESRO FRE 4846	[54] Christopher Blackwood to Samuel Jeake junior, 27 June 1674. Originalletter,	90	Chr: Blackwood	Lo: Cousin,	Your truely lo: Cousin & s[ervant]	"Dublin June the 27"" 1674"			"""90 hundred[weight] = one ton."	"Dublin June the 27"" 1674

Lo: Cousin,

I have yours of the 4"" Instant And doe thankfully acknowledge your kinde
remembrance of mee therein, as also your Cordiall respects therein expressed:
I shall onely retturne mine in my harty recommendations to your selfe: &
Good father my unkle fer without further complement for want of further
Ability to manifest it though as to your Appology therein made: certainley is
unessesary: where there is nothing obligeing from mee [word illegible]. I am
heartily Glad to heere of [word struck out] my unkles & your welfare: and doe
observe your Entrance & Intentions In trade: and as to what you write for my
advise in, I must needs expresse the Begerlynesse of the trade of this country
asin a few words: As to all Goods imported: and more essentially at this dead
tyme in trade noe Goods imported heere will sell for mony, but at very long
tyme: and then mony very hard to bee Gott: All Goods of the product of this
country Exportable: must bee Bought with reddy mony, if to be had. As
wooll, tallo, sable hids, tannd leather, & Butter: As for Hopps they are heere
now very Low worth But £4 per hundred* & a meere Drugge at that to: & noe
mony suddenly to be raised uppon them: they are subject to rises & falls heere
according as with you in England: I would not advise you to send any not noe
Lining's neither: nor Can I advise the comodity import that I thinke will turne
to accountt any wayes to your satisfaction: reddy Cash is the onely comodity
heere to buy up the Comodities of this Country, the prises of which I have
underwritten: And now wee make £ 5 per Cent heere Ex[change] of our mony,
provided it Lyes in London to Draw uppon it there: Sometimes the Ex[change]
isat 7 & 8 & £10 per cent to according as it happens: My mother & Brother
are well with his family & desiers their hearty recommendations to my unkle
& your selfe with my hearty service to my unkle & respects to your selfe
wishing you all health & happiness: I am

Your truely lo: Cousin & s[ervant]

Chr: Blackwood

Wooll is heere pretty low at variable prises according to the severall sortes.

Tallos at £30 & £31 per Tunne the charge heere is aboute 40s per Tunne.
Tanned Leather uppers at 6d, soles at 7d. Sable hids smale at 16 s p hundred
with the Dutys of Both sable & tanned hids will be about 5d per hide. Butter

if good at £28 per Tunne, the charge heere 20s per Tunne. The Ex[change] of
mony for London at £5 per Cent.

For Mr Samuell Jeake Jun merchant at Rye in Sussex, these.
Rye forward per p[o]st to Lond 6d."	Samuel’s first ventures into trade, 1674	ENGLISH	476		"For Mr Samuell Jeake Jun merchant at Rye in Sussex, these.
Rye forward per p[o]st to Lond 6d."	"Wooll is heere pretty low at variable prises according to the severall sortes.
Tallos at £30 & £31 per Tunne the charge heere is aboute 40s per Tunne.
Tanned Leather uppers at 6d, soles at 7d. Sable hids smale at 16 s p hundred
with the Dutys of Both sable & tanned hids will be about 5d per hide. Butter
if good at £28 per Tunne, the charge heere 20s per Tunne. The Ex[change] of
mony for London at £5 per Cent."	1674	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1650	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	2	FALSE	"""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_55	ESRO FRE 4847	[55] James le Griell to Samuel Jeake junior, 12 July 1674. Original letter.	92	James le Griell		"Your most humble servant
 you and rest your att commandBy en{closed] R. B whom G. S"	"Mr Sa: Jeake Deepe* This 12"" July 1674"			"Dieppe.
""OED, tare, n. 2. The weight of the wrapping or packaging of goods which is deducted from the
gross in order to ascertain the net weight."	"Mr Sa: Jeake Deepe* This 12"" July 1674
Sir I have received yours of the 17 of passe what I have done for you when
you was heere is nott worthy of eny tanks [sic]. According to your order I doe
sent you by this baeror Robert Berthemew his vessell one baerrell of mealle
accordinge to the nott here under which doest amont to the summe of £19 10s
French which you shall plaese to pay to my good frind Mr Thomas Miller
and agreed with him for the exchange as concerning glass pendants such commoditie
arre nott of my trade and such businesse arre both att Paris from
whense thatt Comme: In what ells I can serve you you must allwaisse command
mee and shall ever Remag Remayne

Your most humble servant

James le Griell

One small barrell of mealle for the accoumpt of Master Jeake
Weighinge 225 lb tarre"" for the barrel 21 lb

Is net 204 lb att £7 10s - £15: 6
For the barrel and hoope worke - £ 1: 10
For all duties - £ 2: 10
and for portage - £4

£19:10

When you shall send mee some bees wax, shall selle it the most I can att your
most and best advantege.

Sir you shall have for agreeable my kind respect unto you I doe kindly saluteyou and rest your att command
John Le Griell

To Master Samuell Jeake Junior in Rye
By en{closed] R. B whom G. S"	Samuel’s first ventures into trade, 1674	ENGLISH	247		To Master Samuell Jeake Junior in Rye	"When you shall send mee some bees wax, shall selle it the most I can att your
most and best advantege.
Sir you shall have for agreeable my kind respect unto you I doe kindly salute"	1674	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1650	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	2	FALSE	"""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_56	ESRO FRE 4848	[56] Elizabeth Dighton” to Samuel Jeake junior, 8 September 1674. Original letter.	93	Aunt Elizabeth Dighton				Sept the 8 1674			"Loveing Cosin after my kind love to thee this is to let thee know that I am not
altogether unmindfull of thee cosin I have some perswadans that thy deare
father might like hannah desir a son: and the Lord hath given him a son
which he hath indued with wisdom and understanding in a great mesur above
many and so he did the son of hannah for wee read that he did ministred
before the Lord when he was a childe and thy deare father hathe known the
holy scriptures from a childe: and thou hast been brought up with him and by
him: as his dayly [word illegible]: and therefore it will be aspected that thou
shoudlest be as a fruitful bough even a fruitful bough by a well: whose
branches may well out run all thy fellow cosins: and I hop thou will labor
after the same faith to dwel in thee that dwelt first in thy grandmother and
after ward in thy father: and by what I have heard in thy mother also: as to the
well that I [word illegible] thou hast been by is in on some the water of life that
Christ hath given to thy deare father which hath been in him a well of water
which hath its springing from a pressious Jesus: this is a samle [sic] token of
my true love to thee and I pray cosin to give Mary this lettel letter and if she
cannot read it then read to her: and Sarah hears also: and pray tel them what
is missin in them it may be thy deare fathers eye may not always over them: so
with cosins that thou mast know more of the Lord I take leave of thee and
remain thy truly loveing

Aunt Elizabeth Dighton
Sept the 8 1674"	Samuel’s first ventures into trade, 1674	ENGLISH	307				1674	JAMES LE GRIELL	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES LE GRIELL"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_57	ESRO FRE 4849	[57] James le Griell to Samuel Jeake junior, 29 September 1674. Original letter.	93	James le Griell		Your most humble Servant	"Mr Sam: Jeake Jun Deepe® This 19""""/9 September 1674"			"""See above, fn. 43,
""Dieppe."	"Mr Sam: Jeake Jun Deepe This 19""""/9 September 1674

Sir I have received yours of the 21"" passe by the which you give mee advis you
had well received the barrell of maell I did sent you by R. Bartholomew and
that you had paye to Mr Miller the £19 10s for which I have discharge you of
them. I gave you many tanks for the paere of glowfs you have sent mee for my
sonne I keese your hand and shall Remayne
Your most humble Servant
James le Griell
To Mr Samuell Jeake Jun in Rye"	Samuel’s first ventures into trade, 1674	ENGLISH	97		To Mr Samuell Jeake Jun in Rye		1674	ELIZABETH DIGHTON	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH DIGHTON"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_58	ESRO FRE 4850	[58] Mary Freebody to Samuel Jeake junior, 14 October 1674. Original letter.	94	Mary Freebody	Sir	Pray fail not on sattarday by 8 or 9 a clock at the farthest		14 of October 1674			"Sir
Cosin Jeak I am sory that tis my unhapines to be troblesam two my frends as
I must be for I must beg the favor of you not two fail coming two Cranbrook
the day and time apoynted two testifie my cosin your fathars hand and your
own for my cosin made the mortgage and hee and you ar the only witnes as
two it tis my childrens possions and a busines of great consarn it must not be
omited because of the date of the comision and had bin soonar had not other
disapoyntments fallen in of which I shall give farther acount when we meetat
Cranbrook whear god wiling we shall be two make satisfaction for your troble
and pains not douting but you will grant my reques with my husbands and
my sarvis two you and our cosin sir 1 am your obliged frend

Mary Freebody
Benanden this
14 of October 1674

Pray fail not on sattarday by 8 or 9 a clock at the farthest

To Mr Samuell Jeake Jun at his house in Rie this with care and speed"	Samuel’s first ventures into trade, 1674	ENGLISH	185		To Mr Samuell Jeake Jun at his house in Rie this with care and speed		1674	JAMES LE GRIELL	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES LE GRIELL"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_59	ESRO FRE 4851	[59] George Castell to Samuel Jeake junior, 26 June 1676. Original letter.	94		Sir	Your sav' George Castell	"Somerhill 26"" June 1676"			"5 OED, tiller or tallow a. to produce side shoots from the root or base of the stem.
2 Possibly elenge, OED adj. 2. Remote, lonely, dreary or miserable."	"Sir

[and my freinds was showed your land by John Inge: I wish I had known that
you would a sold it halfe a yeare agoe: if the timber were standing I would
give as much more for the land, as now I will doe. Sir my friends judgments
are that you enjured your selfe by takeing downe soe much fine young Timber,
which is a great wrong to you or they that shall have it (you might a taken 30
or 40 trees very well) for the growth of the Timber would be the choose of the
landlord gaine in that place and if you had been a towner (considering the
timber the fences take (you would not a cut [word struck out] now exsept you
had proseeded to destroy the wood: your whooler timber: fine boosh tillowes""
are cut for ages, it is true there is some fine tillowe left for other ages, but harly
a nofe to suplie the farme for this, and I here that [Wayhouse] intends to cut
the wood that is standing, and to leave the land, for hee hieres, a way to your
land, and the man knowes that loses his way: at [word illegible]: and if great
care be not taken, in the carrying out all this timber and wood and faggotts
(the coppice are very thin of wood all Ready) by breaking and [word illegible]
of [word illegible] will be much damnified, and the land is fit for little Else but
wood. I did looke on John Inge house and land and the [word illegible]
but now find the marle not good, with a elienge* plane: and hard to get a
good Tenant not soo is it fit but for a Trade man or laborer if I bought your
land lend to it I understood neere what hee gave for it, and I asked him where
hee would expect of soo much money, and hee told mee no: hee could have
more; but truly there are noe [word illegible] times to bye, a man doth not
know whom hee has a bargain hee did cale at mee foure but I was not at
whom: Our wood masters are doubtfull that within this 7 yeares that the price
of wood will be much lease and [words illegible] lowe, but god be thanked for
a plentie. Sir pardon my [word illegible] having considered the thinnesse of
the coppice, and the great spoyle that will be made in them: and most of the
land fitt for little but wood, and the plaine land that is no good [word illegible]
neere; and great store of fences to be made and maintained with posts and
{word illegible] and little timber left to doe it with, and I feare a tenant to
seeke and there must be a batment of Rent, but however because I live neere,
I will give you for your land fower score pounds provided you make mee a
good title, and I will pay you money at lamasse day the first of August at
Mr Hoppers in Tunbridge and if you will take my money pray send your
writing and instructions to Mr George Hopper to be made againest that time.
And I pray send mee an answer with out fayle on fryday next, by the post, to
be left for mee with Mr Carter [word illegible] of Tunbridge because I shall

cale for the money in, that shall pay you, this with my respects and my wife
presented to you. I take my leave and remaine sir

Your sav' George Castell
Somerhill 26"" June 1676

For Mr Jeakes the younger liveing neere the kingshead in Rye these delivered
with speede and care"	Raising capital, 1676	ENGLISH	620		"For Mr Jeakes the younger liveing neere the kingshead in Rye these delivered
with speede and care"		1674	MARY FREEBODY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""MARY FREEBODY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_60	ESRO FRE 4852	[60] Samuel Jeake junior to George Castell, 29 June 1676. Assumed draft letter.	96	Sa: Jeake jun	Sir	"Not else but my serice to your selfe & wife I remaine
Sir Your Lo: friend & servant"	"Mr George Castell Rye June 29"" 1676"				"Mr George Castell Rye June 29"" 1676

Sir
I have yours of the 26"" Instant wherein youoffer
-mebut
86whieh
-isso
I perceive
you under valued my land below what withoutyour
-advaneewe
-aretiot
itketodeale
-overthetesse others that know the land have already found it to
be worth but seeing you have taken the pains to view the Land & thatyou
desirea
-speedyAnswer write to me there about, I shall be out in the countrey
next week, and will call on you at Somerhill on this day sennight being the 6*
of July about noon where shall treat with you about it. I shall bring the wnitings
with me which I do the rather because if we should deale I should be
unwilling to send them lest they might be lost. Pray let me find you at home.
Not else but my serice to your selfe & wife I remaine

Sir Your Lo: friend & servant

Sa: Jeake jun

To Mr George Castell at Somerhill in Kent. Leave this with Mr Carter the
post at Tunbridge to be delivered as abovest"	Raising capital, 1676	ENGLISH	179		"To Mr George Castell at Somerhill in Kent. Leave this with Mr Carter the
post at Tunbridge to be delivered as abovest"		1676	GEORGE CASTELL	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""GEORGE CASTELL"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_61	ESRO FRE 4853	[61] Elizabeth Dighton to Samuel Jeake junior, 16 July 1676. Original letter.	96	Lo: aunt Eliz Dighton	Loveing cosin			July the 16			"Loveing cosin
This to let you know that we have received your token and letter and we do
find therby: that it is sent to my daughter: securely it is very welcome: and we
do take it as a very great kindness from you and cosin Mary both: and give
you both thankes for it: I hop you will never want it againe: it is wonderfull
mercy that even wee were brought forth in a land of plenty both for soule and
body: O that wee may walke worthy of such mercy and not foolishly requite
the lord as I may say I have so oft done: the lord be with you and guid you in
the narrow way which leadeth to life and when you have enter through the
Strait gate you will have a full reward for al your good works: then is not a
alme forgoten if it be but a cup of could watter: I hop my Brother is well I
should be glad to see a letter from him. Wish my husband and my kind love
to him and son and daughter servis: and all our kind love to you and Cosin
Mary. I remain your ever

Lo: aunt Eliz Dighton
July the 16
Thankes be to the lord wee are all pretty well at present Mr kennedy son was
buried 10 weeks agoe he have lost his mother wife and son he is now sengel
agane if Mrs Miller can doe him a kindness to [see] him to a good wife for he
doth deserve on: and I know not but it may comfort him now in his grife. My
love to him.

Cosin I doe [word illegible] you would does me that kindness as to by me 6
paer of [word illegible] when the new saltfish come to use and what mony you
lay out for me send word how I shall pay it so I would not have of the [word
illegible] sort but indeed on lettel one: and let them be put up safe:

This for her very loveing cosin Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye"	Raising capital, 1676	ENGLISH	354				1676	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	GEORGE CASTELL	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	UNK	UNK	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""GEORGE CASTELL"""
j_62	ESRO FRE 4855	[62] John Wagon* to Samuel Jeake junior and senior, 29 September 1676. Original letter.	97	John Wagon		Your Loving Brother & Uncle	"Loving Bro & Cosin Pembery September 29"" 1676"			" John Wagon was brotherin
-law to Samuel Jeake senior. Wagon was married to Frances Jeake's
sister Elizabeth, see Appendix B."	"Loving Bro & Cosin Pembery September 29"" 1676
Yours of the 2"" & 3"" of August I received wherby I understand that you have
sould the Land unto Mr Castell & that you desire me to pay the Mich[aelmas]
rent to him which will not be conveniant for me to doe because I have suffered
much damage by the workmen & carryers in rutting open severall hedges &
leaveing opent the Barrs & other fences soe that I had a piece of oats quite
spilt & a piece of wheat very much dampnified & alsoe in the pasture I hope
you doe not desin that I should bear the loss of it & if I can requir nothing of
Mr Castell & therfor aply my selfe to you who I hope will allow me what in
equity I shall deserve & I desire noe more now. Pray let me know your Answer
by the next soe with my kind Love & respects to you both I rest

Your Loving Brother & Uncle

John Wagon

These for Mr Samuel Jeake at Rie"	Raising capital, 1676	ENGLISH	181		These for Mr Samuel Jeake at Rie		1676	ELIZABETH DIGHTON	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH DIGHTON"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_63	"ESRO FRE 4§;"	[63] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 7 November 1676. Original letter	98	Tho: Miller		Sir Yours to Comand	"Rye the 7"" Nov: 1676"				"Rye the 7"" Nov: 1676

Mr Sa: Jeake

Sir] am sorry our master Holmes hath lost his oppertunity, these are to advis
you nothing was wanting in me, but munday morning was his time which ca
not now be recovered, these are to desire you to se if you can geta boate a
Hasting that will carry them on bord, if Rob: Moore should com with hi
vessel into the road and at what price per barrell for I feare we must do soq
last for I feare Holmes fech she. Praye do what you can to get on, these ar
also to advise you that I have just now agreed with Mr Lewis Gillart Junio
for what quantity of Red Herrings we shall want at 22s per barrel all full §
very good ware, so that if you have not bought any more herrings I woul
advise you not to bye any more then to make up just 120 barrels of ful
repacked, and the shotton* only to full packe them for London market & ys
will fill up the vessel with red heare Mr Gillart hath about 30 barrells if We cap
take them all in we may have them. I have acquainted your Father with it who
doth very well approve of it, if this com to you before you com out of Town:
faile not to se to get a boat or at least to know if a boate can be had if ye
should so do & at what price per barrell & if it be late before you com hom:
ou shall be shure of comming over the ferry for I will speake to Joseph the
(erryman to waite for your coming tho late. My respects to you & to my

Cousans, I rest
Sir Yours to Comand

Tho: Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Merchant At Mr Naldreds house in Hasting, Sussex"	Raising capital, 1676	ENGLISH	318	Mr Sa: Jeake	To Mr Samuel Jeake Merchant At Mr Naldreds house in Hasting, Sussex		1676	JOHN WAGON	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN WAGON"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_64	ESRO FRE 4858	[64] Elizabeth Dighton to Samuel Jeake junior, via Richard Freebody, 20 July 1677. Original letter.	98		My deare and loveing Cosin	"I am in hast but remain your
very loveing aunt Eliz: dighton"		"July the 20
1677"		*Shotten. OED, 3a. a herring that has spawned.	"My deare and loveing Cosin

This to let you know that I did deliver the token to her to whom you sent it
and she doe give you many thanks for it: She wish you may have it made up
to you again: so I hop you will have it made good to you: and much more for
that: either in this life or in that which is to come: for God is not forgetfull of
your labor of love which you have [showed] to any of his poore ones: I was a
dream last night that Mrs Weekes had me to her house and me thought when
I came there was to spits of meat at the fire: I was thinking this morning
whether ther might be weding then or no. I pray you when you see her and
Mrs Mary to remember me kindly to them both and give them my thankes for
ther love to me and to my frend: when wee were at ther house: he remembers
to you all and write to that he thinke to come home shortly: So with my
husband and my love to your father and selfe and Cosin Mary: and son and
daughter service to ther unkel and love to ther cosins
I am in hast but remain your

very loveing aunt Eliz: dighton
July the 20
1677

For Mr Richard Freebody in Rye in Susex pare give this letter to my Coz
Samuel"	Family matters, 1677-1678	ENGLISH	244		"For Mr Richard Freebody in Rye in Susex pare give this letter to my Coz
Samuel"		1676	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_65	ESRO FRE 4859	[65] J. Relfe to Samuel Jeake junior, 15 August 1677. Original letter.	99	J Relfe	Sir	Yours to serve you to my power	"Cranbrooke Aug 15"" At 7 at night 1677"				"Sir
Yours of the 13"" instant I received, but not until this present day being
Wednesday after 5 of the clocke in the Afternoone. By yours I understand
that your Fathers fitt proved worse that day I left you then wee expected that
it would be, as alsoe you let me know what happened to him unto the time
that you wrott your Letter. Sir I hope that the many stooles that you mention
were criticall & soe a benigne action of nature in casting out what was inimicatiall
to it; for in all Evacuations there is some expense of vitall spiritts with
the offending matter, even in evacuating of purulent & corrupted humours
from an Imposthume in the externall parts of the body as Mr Gee can tell
you. And that I apprehend is the cause of his much increasing weaknesse &
faintnesse, Many alterations may happen since you wrott your Letter, therefore
I know not what to advise you to better, then to continue the use of
strengthening & cordiall meanes. I doe long to heare further how it pleaseth
the Lord to deale with him. I have not else at present who am
Yours to serve you to my power
J Relfe
Cranbrooke Aug 15"" At 7 at night 1677
Sir pray remember me to your Father, my Cosin Boys, Mr Miller, Mr Gee, &
all other Friends with you, & if you have any new Intelligence for France or
elsewhere, to give me 2 or 3 lines of it.

To Mr Samuel Jeake Jun in Rye these"	Family matters, 1677-1678	ENGLISH	261		To Mr Samuel Jeake Jun in Rye these	"Sir pray remember me to your Father, my Cosin Boys, Mr Miller, Mr Gee, &
all other Friends with you, & if you have any new Intelligence for France or
elsewhere, to give me 2 or 3 lines of it."	1677	ELIZABETH DIGHTON	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH DIGHTON"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_66	ESRO FRE 4862	[66] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 23 February 1678. Original letter.	100	Sa: Jeake	Loving son	Your lo: father	"London Febr 23"""	1677/8			"Loving son

These are only to acquaint you that through mercy I got well to London this
Afternoone about 4 a clocke our Company riding but softly & Mr Crouch
desires you would let his family know that he got well up also. I can write you
no news yet for the war the talke is as various here as in the countrey & wayers.
I heare at the Coffee houses some for warr & some for peace, Cosins here
are in different but Cosin Mackley's little one is dead, & Cosin Jane hath got
acold. My horse carried me very well & I am not very weary. Remember m
to Cosin Freebody and his wife & Cosin Mary & all my friends that aske after
my welfare not else but my kind love to you & hearty desire of a blessing on
you all in hast I subscribe
London Febr 23""
Your lo: father1677/8
Sa: Jeake

To his lo sonne Samuel Jeake in Rye Sussex these"	Family matters, 1677-1678	ENGLISH	167		To his lo sonne Samuel Jeake in Rye Sussex these		1677	JOSEPH RELFE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FRIEND	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOSEPH RELFE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_67	ESRO FRE 486	[67] Christopher Blackwood to Samuel Jeake junior, 23 April 1678. Original letter.	100	Chri: Blackwood	Deare Cousin	"Your moste Affectionate Lo Cousin
& Humble Servant
If you Designe any trade heere, I shall also Direct you in ordering your mony
to best advantage in the Ex[change] which often proves as much advantage, as
the profit by the Goods. There is now Advantage in the Ex[change] of mony
from £8 to £9 per cent."	Dublin Aprill the 23” 1678			"* Possibly a reference to the FrancoDutch
war, 16728.
"	"Dublin Aprill the 23"" 1678
Deare Cousin
I have yours of the 11'"" Instant And am rejoyced to heere of my unckle & your
welfare I observe the Contents is for Information of the trade of this place ln
Genererall And for mee at this juncture to Give you a phuller account of
trade heere or rates of Goods would bee. Wholy on uncertainties for this
Longer suspicion of A warr with France putts A Delema on all Trade her,
till wee see what the results will bear In Generall I would not Advise you te
Concerne your selfe in Any Goods whatsoever to Importe them heere for the
trade of this countery is to sell all Imported Goods at Longe trust and badd
pay of. And all Goods of the product of this countery wee are force to buy
with our reddy money, nay, & Advance beforehand. Therefore if you Concerne
your selfe heere, it must bee in hides tan'd Leather Tallow Butter Beefe Salted
Mutton & Wooll. Now in the paying for said Goods, you may Either remitt
your mony By Bills you may take up at London on this place, or by ordering
your correspondent heere to drawe for the same on London and In soe
Doeing you Advance In profitt by the Ex[change] from £5 to £10 per Cent. In
retturneing your mony over hither, and that is according as the Current of the
Ex[change] happens heere and In London. Now the times of the yeere for
beeing concerned in said Goods are for Leather all the yeere round dewty
heere 6s per hide besides some small contingent charges. Rawe hides from
Michaelmas to Candlemas, dewty 6s per hide. Beef & mutton from
Michaelmas to Candlemas, dewty 12s per Barrell, tallow to be had all the
yeere but the plentyfullest tyme is from Michaelmas to Candlemas, dewty 18s
per hund. Butter the best tyme is from Midsummer to Michaelmas the dewty
6s per hund. As for wooll it will not Lye in your way to deal there in Comitions
heere for Exportations are at £2 % per Cent, there are some contingent
charges in the exportation of said Goods as at all places and for the freights,
its Divers according to the places you Designe for And applenty of shipping
are to bee had for mee to Give you the rate of Goods as they now are signefyes
not for if wee have A war all Goods with us will imediatly fall: if noe war
then all goods will immediatly Advance againe. Now if there bee A war your
Hazard will bee very Greate in trade especially from heere to London very
Dangerous. In time of peace, freight for London is commonly from 32 to 36s
per Tunnes. I suppose you may have much A Designe on Tallow the rates
whereof are very uncertaine, according as marketts are Abroad, soe it
Advances or falls heere and I have knowne it to varey heere soe much as from
£22 to £36 per Tunne. Coz Assure your selfe In any things you may freely
Command mee and assoone as wee have some settlement concerning this war
you shall heere from mee fully, as to phuller rates of Goods as also advise as
to plausible Designes soe farr as I Apprehend and in the Interime, if you
Ex[change] A Letter now and then desireing Information, as to any phuller
Designe you have thoughts of, or any phuller comodities you shall have my
full Answer thereto. I have been Married this 12 months past & have one
Daughter. With tenders of my Humble service to my Good unckle & hearty
respects to your selfe I am

Your moste Affectionate Lo Cousin

& Humble Servant

Chri: Blackwood
If you Designe any trade heere, I shall also Direct you in ordering your mony
to best advantage in the Ex[change] which often proves as much advantage, as
the profit by the Goods. There is now Advantage in the Ex[change] of mony
from £8 to £9 per cent.

For Mr Samuel Jeake Jun Mercht in Rye in Sussex"	Trading in Tallow, 1678	ENGLISH	684		For Mr Samuel Jeake Jun Mercht in Rye in Sussex		1678	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_68	ESRO FRE 4866	[68] Samuel Jeake junior to Christopher Blackwood, 9 May 1678. Copy of letter made by Samuel Jeake.	102		Lo: Cousin		"Rye May 9"" 1678"				"Rye May 9"" 1678

Lo: Cousin

Mr Miller & myselfe, are intended to send to Dublin in Ireland for a small
parcell of Tallow to be brought to London & disposed off there. If you think
meet to venture you shall have a part with us. I suppose Cos: Freebody will
also be interested in it; we shall send now only for a Triall that if it please God
it prove of any advantage we may gain some experience & prepare for a
greater Quantity the next winter it being the best time to buy in Irel: between
Michaelmass & Candlemas. And therefore we now shall not exceed a Tonne
apiece at most if so much what we order. If you write your mind you shall
have equal with any of the partners. I desire your answer next post for the
Exchange now being between 8 & 9 per Cent profit to remitt moneys into
Ireland we think to give order assoon as your answer comes to hand. Pray
with all advise mee how Irish Tallow bears prices in Lon[don]. Weeannct
promiseourselves
If you have any intentions of joyning in with us I shall in
my next God willing acquaint you of our proceedings about it & so from time
to time [words struck out]. We are all through mercy in health & hope the like
of you & that littler Cousin Tho: is upon recovery. With respects I remaine"	Trading in Tallow, 1678	ENGLISH	240				1678	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1650	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	2	FALSE	"""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_69	ESRO FRE 4867	[69] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 11 May 1678. Original letter.	102	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	Youre Loving Cousin	"Southwark May the 11""78"				"Southwark May the 11""78
Lo Cousin
Yours I received and tharby understand you be minded to send to Dublin in
Irland for a small parcell of talow which I am Free and willing to bare a part
with you and the others whom you have menshoned in such a parcell as you
write of that tharin we may see how our Corospondant doth Deale with ous
in sending that which is good and then as we like to Rosgoe for a bigger
parcell one thing I would disier of you to give order it may be put up in prity
bige Caske for if thay be small Caske we shall Luse by them in tear for I
thinke the Custom howse Doth alowe but £12 per hundred tear hear so the
bigger the Caske be the beter, I am to waye of a parcell of Irish talow which
Came from bristowe one Tusday next which Coste me 37s a hundred. I doe
not knowe of any that hath bein Bought Cheaper. I hear it is worth but 32s a
hundred att Bristowe it is my mind and som others that I have discoursed that
if we have a war it will be Cheaper for we have always knowen it to be so, but
if no war I think it will be Rather dearer. We are all through marcy in health
excep my sonn who hath the small pox & was blind with them 3 dayes but
thanks be to God he is pretty well and Doth Come Dowen in the kiching &
we have much adoe to kepe him out of the shope my sarvis to my uncle
& Kind love to youre selfe & other Relaitions. I Rest & Remaine

Youre Loving Cousin

John Mackley

A too hundred Cask thay alow 24 lb & I have known such Caske way 36 lb.
If the Caske be beg or lettel that is the tear the Custom howse alowes if they
be 4:5:6 or 7 hundred or thar aboute it will be best.

To his Loving Cousin Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Trading in Tallow, 1678	ENGLISH	353		To his Loving Cousin Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex	"A too hundred Cask thay alow 24 lb & I have known such Caske way 36 lb.
If the Caske be beg or lettel that is the tear the Custom howse alowes if they
be 4:5:6 or 7 hundred or thar aboute it will be best."	1678	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	1650	1640-1680	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	2	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR"""
j_70	ESRO FRE 4868	[70] Samuel Jeake junior to Christopher Blackwood, 14 May 1678. Assumed draft letter.	103	Sa: Jeake jun	Respected Cousin	"Sir Your most affectionate Cousin
& most faithful humble servant"	"Rye May 14"" 1678"			*See fn 48, above.	"Rye May 14"" 1678
Respected Cousin
By yours of the 23"" past I have to satisfaction your full answer to my former
since which I have communicated my intentions to those that will be interested
with me with such goods as I shall send for from Ireland to London whose
names you have at foot: and having last post received advise from London that
Excha[nge] continues good for Ireland, with an accompt of the present price of
Irish tallow in London being at £37 per Ton. We have concluded that though it
be not the best time of yeare to buy in Ireland yet to try now with a small parcell
that if it please God to give success with it may be preparatory to a greater quantity
after Michaelmas. And therefore I do hereby order you to buy for my selfe
& Company 4 Tonnes of good Tallow at the best rates the present market with
you will affoord. In your Choice whereof do as for your selfe that it may be good
white & well tryned into the Cask & such as is fitt for London market & be
pleased when bought to ship the same in the first good English vessel bound for
London marked Mo & consigned to Mr Jn° Mackley Tallow chandler in
Tooleys Street neer London bridge in Southwark, London. Pray but+t let it be
in great Cask or 5. 6. & 7. hundr with the Cask which saves us something at the
Customehouse in the tare. And for the cost please to draw on me & Company at
the usuall time of payment payable in the house of the said Jo: Mackley London
for which you may take the best Excha[nge] that presents to my advantage. I
should have remitted but that it would have been impossible to have fitted the
money exactly & this being only for a Tryal we know not how our Resolutions
will be to continue the trade. I hope the profit of Excha[nge] may not be much
less to us for being drawn on. Moneys were remitted from London last week to
Dublin at 10 per % profit. Pray put the order hereby given you in Execution with
all convenient speed & without hesitation. I have fully considered of the suspences
and demurr on Trade you write of & fear not that hazard you mention. Let
not uncertain Rumors delay your following my order, I think the Excha[nge] can
never be better for me [words struck out] My partners are Mr Tho: Miller & Mr
Rich Freebody of Rye & the said Mr John Mackley to which last consign the
goods as above & send the bill of Lading but the invoice enclose in yours to me.
My Father & selfe are through mercy in health & presenting your selfe with our
respects & congratulations of your mutual happiness. Expecting your answer
ar first I remaine

Sir Your most affectionate Cousin

& most faithful humble servant

Sa: Jeake jun"	Trading in Tallow, 1678	ENGLISH	501				1678	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_71	ESRO FRE 4869	[71] Christopher Blackwood to Samuel Jeake junior, 25 May 1678. Original letter.	104	Chr: Blackwood	Deare Cousin	Your moste Affect Lo Cousin	"Dublin May the 25"" 1678"				"Dublin May the 25"" 1678
Deare Cousin
I have yours of 14"" Instant & observe your orders to buy 4 tunns of tallo, to
send to London. I should redily observe your orders but at this tyme of yeere,
its seldome freight is to bee had for London, and at present none at all is to
bee had heere being one vessell heere, but shee was fully loaded before your
orders came, for though at tyme of yeare vizt after Michaelmas when goods
are to bee had then plenty of freight is to bee had for London; But till then!
Doubt I shall get noe freight for your 4 tunns of tallo unlesse I should freight
a whole vessell off, which is beyond your orders & also such a Quantity of
tallo could not nowe bee perused therefore I shall wave buying any untill I
meet with opertunity of freight which when it happens I shall fullfill your
orders in Buying 4 tunns of tallo for you, consigneing it as Directed & Drawe
on you for the mony. The Exch[ange] is heere at £8 pcent, it's comonly £3 per
cent more Advance remitt from London then to Drawe heere, besides if I
Drawe money, it must bee on Mr John Mackley in London Directly, whoe
must accept & pay the sight is as common for to have bills presented at Rye
though paid in London would occasion losse in the Exch[ange]. Tallo is nowe
heere at £32: 10 per Tunn, it haveing kept up its price heere, this yeare beyond
Expectation, soe that I feare, there will bee losse by it considereing the charges
that you will not Gett soe much as the Advance of [the] Exchange] by it,
therefore I shall wave y[our] orders untill I can meete with freight & then I
shall fullfill them, unlesse, in the interime, I receive your orders to the conterary
with humble service, to my good unckle and your selfe, I am

Your moste Affect Lo Cousin

Chr: Blackwood

For Mr Samuel Jeake Junior merchant in Rye in Sussex"	Trading in Tallow, 1678	ENGLISH	347		For Mr Samuel Jeake Junior merchant in Rye in Sussex		1678	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	1650	1640-1680	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	2	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR"""
j_72	ESRO FRE 4870	[72] Samuel Jeake junior to Christopher Blackwood, 22 June 1678. Assumed draft letter.	105	"Sa; Jeake jun"	Dear Cousin	"Dear Cousin your assured Lo: Cousin
& humble servant"	Rye June 22™ 1678				"Dear Cousin
Rye June 22 1678
In Answer to yours of the 25"" past. If none [words struck out] Tallow in
regard you had not have presented since & you have not bought [words struck
out], before this comes to your hand. Then I desire you not to buy any for I
will not venture to give such a price atthistime
-ofyear
-seeingttwitteometo
fatetoLondon
now unless you had therehad
-an [words struck out] met with
a freight [words illegible] my former Letter. So if you have not bought before
you receive this, I desire you to forbear, & do hereby make void any former
order. I expect not an Answer at present but after Michaelmas when you find
some good may be done, advise me without faile in time & I shall give you a
new order. If you had bought you might have drawn on Mr Jo: Mackley
directly giving him advise thereof though the way I proposed is usuall from
France; And unless I lived in London my selfe I chuse to be drawn on rather
then run the hazard of remitting. I have no more but respects to your selfe &
good wife. I remaine
Dear Cousin your assured Lo: Cousin
& humble servant
Sa; Jeake jun"	Trading in Tallow, 1678	ENGLISH	210				1678	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1650	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	2	FALSE	"""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_73	ESRO FRE 4871	[73] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 6 July 1678. Original letter,	106	"Your Lo: Cousin
John Mackley"	Lo Cousin		"Southwark July the 6"" 1678"				"Southwark July the 6"" 1678

Lo Cousin
Youer I Received and tharby understand you are minded to lay by ouer
Intenshon of Ireland while Michaelmas, I doe understand that then we shall
lose the advantages that we nowe can make in the Returning of ouer money
for it now goes att 10 per cent and att that tim marchant are Glad to Retum
att Even hand, if you & the Rest are willing as I am I would have you Give
order by the nex post to them for to draw a bill for such a sum of money to
by such a parcell of goods as you ordered be for and that it may be Redy to
be shipped by the first that present, so then we shall have the advantadge of
the Returns of money, and the advantedge of the bying ouer goods, Irish
talow is worth £39 a tun, so as they write it would be best for me to Except
and pay, I thinke it would for it will be a grate troble to send them to you, if
you doe anything in it advise them to send me a letter that I may know thar
hand, it being all but my sarvis to my uncle, we being all throw marcy in
health, with my kind love to youer selfe & other Relations I Rest

Your Lo: Cousin

John Mackley

To his Lo: Cousin Mr Sam Jeake Jun in Rye Sussex"	Trading in Tallow, 1678	ENGLISH	245		To his Lo: Cousin Mr Sam Jeake Jun in Rye Sussex		1678	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	1650	1640-1680	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	2	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR"""
j_74	ESRO FRE 4872	[74] Elizabeth Dighton to Samuel Jeake junior, 17 August 1678. Original letter.	106	Eliz: Dighton	Loveing Cosin			"Aug the 17"" 1678"			"Loveing Cosin

I haveing had long knowledge of the poverty of a sober family and this yeare
it hath pleased the Lord to lay sickness on them first on: on of the children:
and after on the mother and then after on the father: and now the man is
pretty well: the woman is downe agane and weaker than before and I feare
much is come on them for want of food and with drinkeing water: and haveing
mett with desapointments in the world by which they were low and under
many temptation and in det: but now the distress is so great that I was thinking
unles the Lord did open some way for them no lese I know not what they
would doe: he tol me last weeke that he had sold some thinges: and in his wife
first sickness he caryed the best of her things with wearing clothes to pane:
and he pay us for the mony: and if they not be redeeme be that since the
peance is up he shall lose them I did tel him I would doe some thing about
that. But that will be littel to their present want: as I was comeing from him
you came on my mind: and the kindness which you had shew to Copland
upon which I had thought to write to you to see if you would show kindness
to this distressed case: I being sad in thoughts about it that saying which the
man said to Christ: if thou cant doe any thing come and help: me thinks by
this word given in to me to write to you the Lord show you the case more fully
than I can write it since this I have met wish of and are about writeing of this
wanton to you but this last night in my sleep and in my last dream I dreamed
that you did put the mony in my hand for a poor body: and me thoughts a
littel after Mr Miller come to me and put mony in my hand for the poor also:
and then I awake and thought on my [dream] and on the case: and my starkness
in writeing that which was so full intended: then I commended god had
now quicken to write by a dream so I thought I would not delaye on day
more. I could produce many words to promot this good worke but I thinke
need not to you: it is but a littel while that the Lord will need to borrow
money of us: a word to the wise I am in hast and must write less then I
intended: so with my kind love to your deare father and selfe and cosins all
freinds I remaine your very loveing aunt

Eliz: Dighton
Aug the 17"" 1678

If you can get any mony of any body els I think it may be apeace of good
serves to the Lord. Lately I have beg so oft of my aquaintance here for some
poor that I cannot tel how to aske them agane.

Copland give you many thanks for the last and all the rest of your love to hear
she said she hop god will make it good to you againe

I have sold but on [word illegible] of the bodes for 6 sillings which cost 6
sillings 6 pence and have had but half the money as yet. I know not when I
shall sell the other they be so so hig price. I receaved 8 sillings 6 pences from
Martha Grebell I hop she will be willing to tarry for her mony tel thay be sold.
[In Samuel Jeake's hand:] ordered Cos: Mackley to pay 10s Aug. 20"" 1678.

This for my very loveing Cosin Mr Samuel Jeake the younger in Rye"	Trading in Tallow, 1678	ENGLISH	640		This for my very loveing Cosin Mr Samuel Jeake the younger in Rye	"If you can get any mony of any body els I think it may be apeace of good
serves to the Lord. Lately I have beg so oft of my aquaintance here for some
poor that I cannot tel how to aske them agane.
Copland give you many thanks for the last and all the rest of your love to hear
she said she hop god will make it good to you againe
I have sold but on [word illegible] of the bodes for 6 sillings which cost 6
sillings 6 pence and have had but half the money as yet. I know not when I
shall sell the other they be so so hig price. I receaved 8 sillings 6 pences from
Martha Grebell I hop she will be willing to tarry for her mony tel thay be sold.
[In Samuel Jeake's hand:] ordered Cos: Mackley to pay 10s Aug. 20"" 1678."	1678	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_75	ESRO FRE 4874	[75] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 29 August 1678. Original letter.	108	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	Youer Lo Cousin		"August the 29"" 1678"			"Lo Cousin
According to youer disier I have Inquieried & have not any nues of the aRiviell
of the Shipe as yet but being bisiey this day could not Inquire but doe Intende
to make Inquiery tomorrowe of Mr Claude Hays, and when I hear of the
aRivell to send you word. I have Received youer 2 letters and allso a bill of
Laden whearing I understand what fraight to pay & shall take care to and gite
a friend that shall direcke me in the entry of them, as to ouer markets they are
fall Conceveable & therefore disier a Lien from you by the next post what I
shall doe in it, as to sell ore to lay by for I canot make above 36s or 37s per
cent at most & if it had bein heer aboute 3 weeks agoe I could have mad 39s
per cent, so acording as you order I shall doe my best in selling it, my thinkes
thay bought att a very hie prise more than I heare hath being given thare. My
sarvis with my wives to my Uncle with kind love to youer selfe being Glad to
heare you are in hope of amendment. I wrest

Youer Lo Cousin

John Mackley
August the 29"" 1678

To his Lo: Cousin In Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Trading in Tallow, 1678	ENGLISH	226		To his Lo: Cousin In Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1678	ELIZABETH DIGHTON	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH DIGHTON"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_76	ESRO FRE 4875	[76] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 12 September 1678. Original letter.	108	John Mackley	Lo: Cousin	"Your Lo Cousin
Pray Remember my Kind love to all ouer Relaitions & to Mr Miller. Hear is
the bill for my Uncle."	"Southwark Sept. the 12"" 1678"			Dice Key, London.	"Lo: Cousin

Youers of the 7"" Instant I Received and also my Uncles and acordingly have
payed the bill Mr Miller Drawe one me for £7 19s and Intrest. Thanks be to
god ouer talow is arrived the vesell doth lie att Dise Key."" I have this day
intred the talow and I think it will be Landed tomorrow. I have some that doe
Intend to see it tomorrow so when I have sould I shall give you a further
acount pray Remember my sarvis to my uncle and aquante him that I have
sould the [word illegible] att 11 ""2s & thar was £47 so I had for them 45s, Mrs
Gant hath not as yet Coled for the 20s my Uncle ordered me to pay her, my
Aunt had 10s of me. We are all blessed be god in health but sorey to hear you
have gotton an ague & Couteney so weake it being all but disiering the Lord
to give you stranth & Restore you againe to helth. I wrest
Your Lo Cousin
John Mackley
Southwark Sept. the 12"" 1678

Pray Remember my Kind love to all ouer Relaitions & to Mr Miller. Hear is
the bill for my Uncle.

To his Lo: Cousin Mr Samuell Jeake Jun in Rye Sussex"	Trading in Tallow, 1678	ENGLISH	215		To his Lo: Cousin Mr Samuell Jeake Jun in Rye Sussex		1678	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_77	ESRO FRE 4876	[77] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 18 September 1678. Original letter.	109	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	Youer lo Cousin	"Southwark September the 18"" 78"			"* Continue.
landing of goods and examine them."	"Southwark September the 18"" 78

Lo Cousin
My kind love with my wives to you, with ouer sarvis to my Uncle hoping
youer helth as blessed be god we are att present theas are to Lett you Knowe
that I have sould the fore Grate Caske of talow att 36s per cent thay take
them att Irish wt & tare only I alowe 2s one a Caske super tare & the other
13 I have taken home to my selfe & will take them att that prise only I thinke
you must alowe 3s one them for by the Kings coine I fall shorte in every
Caske in wt. I would have sould more but I could not be bid above 35s 6d for
the Rest. Ouer markets are solowe I do hear thar is a parsell sould sences for
35s a hundred, how ever I ame free to take them to my selfe. I shall Received
the money for thowes fore a Monday & as for my money it shall be Redy in
a fortnight so you may Caste up what it Comes to by youer Invoyes & Charge
me Dr: I Rest

Youer lo Cousin

John Mackley
Kings Coine of the wt
No.1= 4=3=00

2= 4=3=10 May the 9 paid for a letter
3= 4=2=]12 25 paid for a letter
4= 8=3=00 July the 16 paid for a letter
SS 8=0=22 16 paid to Mr Mounke
6= 48 August 20 paid for a letter
Whe 2=0=16 BH paid for a letter
g= 4=2=0 Sept 7 paid to Mr Tillotson
g= 4=2=10 7 paid for a letter
10= 4=1=0 1] paid for Custom of 4 tun
HW= 5=2=0 11 paid for writing a bill
12= 8=2=0 1] paid for bill mony
13= 6=0=16 12 paid to the Landwater
for Bill Mo:
4= 4=3=3 12 give to those that wayed
15 2=1=15 12 paid to the Cuper for
huping & heading som
16= 3=0=10 12 paid too shilling a tun
landing and warfidge
17= 8=0=8 Spent
Grose 89=1=18 Septem the 18 paid for fraite & primidas
& caridge
GE 82=0=27 to alow 8s one the 4 Caske
Tar 1=19 ditto 39 one the 13 Caske
Nett 81=3=08 att 36 per Cent 47
36
486
243
291/6
145:16
1:7
PEL
147=5=7

00 = 00 =02
00 = 00 =02
00 = 00 =04
25 =00=00
00 = 00=02
00 = 00 = 04
07 = 19=00
00 = 00 = 04
03 = 03 = 04
00 = 00=06
00 = 02 =06
00 = 02 =00

00 = 00 = 06
00 = 01=06

00 = 08 =)

00 = 00 = 06
06 = 12=2

43 =11=4
32 = 19=
10 = 12=

To his Lo: Cousin Mr Samuell Jeake Jun in Rye in Sussex"	Trading in Tallow, 1678	ENGLISH	466		To his Lo: Cousin Mr Samuell Jeake Jun in Rye in Sussex		1678	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_78	ESRO FRE 4877	[78] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 24 September 1678. Original letter.	111	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	"Youer lo Cousin
I wonder ouer Correspondent shuld by so dear for ouse.
Pray Remember ouer servis to my uncle & kind love to all ouer Relaitions."	Southwark Sept. the 24 1678				"Southwark Sept. the 24 1678
Lo Cousin
Youers of the 18 Instant Received and for Anser I will asuer you I have done
Like a kind partner in ofring to take the Reste of the parcell att the prise I
sould tho to my one Lose when I Can by Nuecastell talow att the same prise
which is better talow, thou the Irish talow I would have sould more then I did
Could I have Reched the prise. I ofred it to Sevrell that I ame aquanted with
& we doe by together ofingtimes & thay would not give me more than 35s 6d
& thought it would be a Grate kindness in them to take it so you write if I
cane aforde it to give the 42s which you will be Lusers by it, truly I canot give
any More for it is above the market what I ofer, yesterday I Received the
Money for the fore Gr[e]at Caske of talow & one of them proves so Corse
that he did say had he sein it he would not have Given above 32 s per cent it
was so bad thay was all aborde the shipe when I sould them so thay take them
by the numbers not seing what they Bought. Some of this that I have att home
is very corse, as to ouer markets I doe not thinke thay cane be dearer for hear
is a Grate dell of talow in London & more Irish talow Exported in Every day.
I have Broken open 5 of the Caske & I have 8 hole that I have not Luked one
so if you be wiling to venter the market those shall stand att ouer howse & if
thar shall be any Rise this winter I shall doe my best to sell them as Dear as I
can for you. I Cane doe no more than what I have ofred so I wrest disiring
youer Anser by the next post.

Youer lo Cousin
John Mackley

I wonder ouer Correspondent shuld by so dear for ouse.

The charge for bring in howse of the 13 Cask

Cost me
LS
For 2 Cartes 07
-0
For loding 0~2~-6
0=9=6

Pray Remember ouer servis to my uncle & kind love to all ouer Relaitions.

To his Lo: Cousin Mr Samuell Jeake Jun in Rye Sussex"	Trading in Tallow, 1678	ENGLISH	395		To his Lo: Cousin Mr Samuell Jeake Jun in Rye Sussex		1678	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_79	ESRO FRE 4881	[79] John Cooke to Samuel Jeake junior, 26 March 1679. Original letter.	112	Jn° Cooke 1678		Yours att Com[manld	"Exon 26"" March 1679"				"Exon 26"" March 1679

Mr Sam Jeake Junior
Sir I am favoured with yours of 19"" Current & with great readiness &
satisfaction shall I embrace the honour of your correspondence & service
here wherein you judge mee capable not only as you come recommended by
my good friend Mr Thomas Morris of London but as by your style you manifest
an ingenious disposition & as I have occasion of service in your partes, I
shall address my selfe to you desiring att the season you would advise mee
[your price] of hopps &c. as also whither for the present there are any ships
about 25 the Marchant tonnage to be disposed off & whither you conceivea
penny worth may bee obtained wherein you will oblidge mee ever to approve
my selfe

Yours att Com[manld

Jn° Cooke 1678

To Mr Sam Jeake Jun Merchant in Rye pd 3d"	Making new contacts, 1679	ENGLISH	148	Mr Sam Jeake Junior	To Mr Sam Jeake Jun Merchant in Rye pd 3d		1678	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_80	ESRO FRE 4883	[80] Samuel Jeake junior to John Cooke, 3 April 1679. Assumed draft letter.	112	S.J.j		Sir Your most humb: & obliged servt	Mr John Cooke Rye Apr .3. 1679.			 OED, n. 3a, a bargain or good return.	"Mr John Cooke Rye Apr .3. 1679.
Sir as the obligation you have put upon me by your kind entertainment of my
last devotes me to your service. To the character which though superior to
my deserts you are pleased to honor me with by yours of the 26 past fills me
with desire of opportunity to manifest at least in the sincerity of my servicea
supply of any failure in its merit. I shall not omitt God permitting to advise
you the price of hops for the next season & in due time, being extremely
satisfied in the Reflection of your favour so far as to intimate your making use
of me in any concerns hereabouts, requesting the continuance of your good
affections that I may be interested in the execution of such commissions as
you shall find occasion to give in these parts & that your curtesy may likewise
diffuse it selfe in procuring me those of your good acquaintance that may be
subject to your influence. I have made Enquiry about such a ship as you mention,
but find not one of that burden or neer it to be disposed off srorindeed
anythatearrurge
-afwordtost
}astimestroware
that I can either commend
_ for penny worth or [word illegible]. I deferr'd my writing trstpost
on purpose
last post to learn if any hada
-mindte
-seHthat
were worth your purchase
would bee sold but I see myself not so happy to accomplish your desires
herein. However if hereafter I meet with one, I shall not forget to advise you.
In the interim I crave leave to subscribe

Sir Your most humb: & obliged servt

S.J.j

* HereisoneofIf
you had occasion of one about 70 ton of stowage cask w
ofdeadwtormearhere
is a very amew & good pinke"" & well fitted & almost
new yotthadoeeaston
belonging to this towne one Rob: Nicholl mt which I
saw one of the owners tells me will be sold & somewhat under £400 he saith
have been bid £400 for her. I do believe were the times any think favourable
she were a penyworth, but as they now are I know not what to say, though I
believe her well worth what she will be sold for. If [you] have employment for
one so bigg I believe she would do very well which you may consider of & if
it will fit you [section damaged] or on the Receit of your answer I shall be
ready to treat withtheowners
[words illegible] what service I can in treating
with the owners."	Making new contacts, 1679	ENGLISH	425			"* HereisoneofIf
you had occasion of one about 70 ton of stowage cask w
ofdeadwtormearhere
is a very amew & good pinke"" & well fitted & almost
new yotthadoeeaston
belonging to this towne one Rob: Nicholl mt which I
saw one of the owners tells me will be sold & somewhat under £400 he saith
have been bid £400 for her. I do believe were the times any think favourable
she were a penyworth, but as they now are I know not what to say, though I
believe her well worth what she will be sold for. If [you] have employment for
one so bigg I believe she would do very well which you may consider of & if
it will fit you [section damaged] or on the Receit of your answer I shall be
ready to treat withtheowners
[words illegible] what service I can in treating
with the owners."	1679	JOHN COOKE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN COOKE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_81	ESRO FRE 4885	[81] Samuel Jeake junior to John Jewell, 15 April 1679. Assumed draft letter.	113	S J junior		"Sir Yours att Command
My name is Samuel."	Mr John Jewell Rye Apr .15. 1679.			"""OED, n. a. a small sailing vessel."	"Mr John Jewell Rye Apr .15. 1679.

Sir having not long since occasion to write to Mr W Jennens of Plimo[uth] I

was requesting him to recommend me to a good correspondent in your parts,

in answer to which he was readily pleased to direct me to your selfe. Whence
Tassume the liberty to give you the trouble of a Line or two to advise me the
price of wheat now with you, & whether if I should find it worth while (on
your information of the present price) [words struck out] to give order for a
parcell. There be plenty & not like to be inhanced in the rates. I desire also an
account of the correspondence of your measure & a different estimate of the
price as you buy it of the country or when it is milled and the soyle & drake
taken out. Red wheat is that which usually is sold with us if very good I praye
therefore chiefly intimate the price of that & such as is good & new, [words
struck out] And whether you will buy by Commission at 2 per % or keep
stores your selfe, which if you do at what rate you [willl sell the best red wheat
milled & free from soyle. If I find probability of a sale here I do intend when
I heare from you or within some short time after (if the prizes you write me
will beare it) to order a parcell to be bought the quantity I cannot yet resolve
though twill not at most exceed 250 quarters Winchester maybe but 200
perhaps not above 120 only would know whether if could have the greater
quantity bought without a rise of the price or whether must have been shipped
already & consequently be like to advance & also whether your harbour be
good & fit for great vessells as well as small. As to the Cost if I should do
anything I can order you where to draw in London & remitt money there
which you may have in your hands before I send a vessell for I shall not send
money by sea. I wait the honour of your answer per first which as it shall be
thankfully accepted so if your owne affaires or friends should at any time be
concerned in these parts I shall be ambitious to repay it with equal gratitude
and never forget the obligation you will hereby put upon

Sir Yours att Command

S J junior
My name is Samuel."	Making new contacts, 1679	ENGLISH	425				1679	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	JOHN COOKE	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	UNK	UNK	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""JOHN COOKE"""
j_82	ESRO FRE 48%	[82] Samuel Jeake junior to Major Childs, 19 April 1679. Assumed draft letter	114	Sa: Jj.		Sir Your servt to Command				"""OED, n. la. dry and liquid measures the standards of which were originally deposited 2
Winchester."	"Copy to Major Childs in Gracechurch Street London Rye Apr. 19 1679
Since sir I had the happiness of seeing you in London I have been enquiring
whether I could dispose of any madera wines at this place but find no great
probability, they being neither used nor indeed well knowne here. Yet I met
with one that told me he might buy if had a tast & did like it, so if you think
meet to send * asmattbottle
-tHtessthana
-pintwilt
-dee) by the Hawkhunt
Carrier *(next Thursday) lodging at the Greyhound in Southwark a small
bottle (less than a pint will do) of the very best, pure & tmsophisticat
unmixed I will try whether the tast will please him. If it doe & can fastena
pipe or haste upon him I shall order you by what vessell to send it & for what
I buy shall expeetyotr
pay ready money expecting usage according [words
struck out]. But if find it prove not acceptable to the country shall then desist
& not trouble you with impertinences. Not else but that I am

Sir Your servt to Command

Sa: Jj."	Making new contacts, 1679	ENGLISH	190				1679	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	JOHN JEWELL	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	UNK	UNK	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""JOHN JEWELL"""
j_83	ESRO FRE 4887	[83] William Delamare to Samuel Jeake junior, 28 April 1679. Original letter.	115	Wm Delamare		Sir Yours at Command					"To Mr Samuel Jeake junior Caen 28 April 1679
"" Sir I received but yesterday your Letter of the 29/19"" of March: and the day
_ before I received sum from London of the 20/10 of this month. So that if
your said letter had required a speedy answer, the long staing of it by the way,
_ might have caused a prejudice to your affaires, which accident I do intimate
- that you might prevent it hereafter. Being you are pleased to desire my correspond
in this Town, I am very willing to accept any occasion to render you my
service in whatsoever shall concerne you in these parts, and to that effect you
may commande mee when you please but, as the affaires stand as yet between
France & England, there is, I thinke, no hopes of sending any goods from
hence to you, till the deffence of it be taken off in England, and I know not
what could bee brought from your Town to Caen. So expecting then your
further desire, and instruct about it, I shall in the meane time assure you of
my service, and willingness to continue our correspondence togather, for
which, I see, I am beholding to Mr Savary. I do send you this answer by the
maister of a Vessel that is [going] from Caen to London, seeing there is no
hast for it; and do direct my Letters to the said Mr Savary. If you any other
friend in London to whom I may addresse my Letters to you hereafter, you
shall bee pleased to let me know it by your first, and so remaine

Sir Yours at Command

Wm Delamare

For Mr Samuel Jeake merchant in Rie"	Making new contacts, 1679	ENGLISH	288		"To Mr Samuel Jeake junior Caen 28 April 1679
For Mr Samuel Jeake merchant in Rie"		1679	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MAJOR CHILDS	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	UNK	UNK	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""MAJOR CHILDS"""
j_84	ESRO FRE 4943°	[84] Richard Pickersgill to Samuel Jeake junior, 2 May 1679. Original letter.	115	Richard Pickersgill	Sir,	"Sir your most humble servant
Pray when have your ordres lett me know what way moust convay the goods
By the Recomandation of your most humble servant D Lesport in Deepe th:"		2th of May 1679		*Catalogued out of sequence, letter was catalogued as if sent in 1680.	"Samuel Jeake

Sir,

Yesterday came to my handes your acceptable Lettre of 19/29 Marche, I doe
verey muche wonder wheare whear it hathe Lain soe longe beinge come by
way of diepe soe must be fault by him you delivert it to, for I none had aney
lettres soe longe on the way from Rye Before this. I am muche oblidged to you
for your kind ofer what Lyes in my power for your servis heare you may fre[ly]
comand me, at all tymes as for Messrs Proctor & Sidgwicke & Morlaix as also
Mr Godfrey in London there is noe neede to write them, nor nobody else
about our Consarnes but if you please to informe your selfe of Mr Cadman
or Capt. Hall I am verey well knowne by bothe.
Now Sir, as for what you desire which is fans & Jessemy gloves with other
things of the Like natur you know these Comodityes are desending in England
yet since you are please to expleake your selfe soe muche I shall doe the same
to you for the things you desire. Am Soure Noebody can fournish you better,
nor cheaper I have drive the trade somme tyme and have a frind at Paris who
I imploy that byes att the first hand and the best soe, if you desire, to make a
tryall must send me a not of what you desire. Right Jessemy gloves will cost
£12 the dozene, fannes according as they are in good not noe prise can be
lemited if you can give me any incouragement, I will take somme in trust with
you in case you desire it but you must send me a memoir what you desire
which I shall be exact to observe soe at present shall not fourder [further]
inlarge but remaine

Sir your most humble servant

Richard Pickersgill

Pray when have your ordres lett me know what way moust convay the goods

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye
By the Recomandation of your most humble servant D Lesport in Deepe th:

2th of May 1679"	Making new contacts, 1679	ENGLISH	348	Samuel Jeake	To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye		1679	WILLIAM DELAMARE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""WILLIAM DELAMARE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_85	ESRO FRE 4889	[85] James le Griell to Samuel Jeake junior, 4 May 1679. Original letter.	116	James le Griell		Your humble servant	"Mr Samuell Jeake Deepe this 4"" May 1679"			"""Jessamy is now known as jasmine. The Dictionary of Traded Goods is not clear whether
jessamy gloves were socalled
because they were coloured yellow or because they were perfumed
with jessamy. In either case they were luxury goods. DTGC, 'Jessamy - Jinny screw'."	"Mr Samuell Jeake Deepe this 4"" May 1679
Sir your letter of the 19/29 March with divers letters in itt I have received butt
this last voiage of this [baeror] John Jacob I do suppose that your said letter
was wraitt long beefore your said letters I have sent them by the post according
to their direction you do desire to have a friend or a good anist man and
correspondence att Paris. If you plaece to make yusse of my friend Master
Charles Derosnel marchant in St Denis Street. I am suere that hee will serve
you well and anistly what shall laye in my power to serve you you shall plaece
to command mee and shall Remayne
Your humble servant
James le Griell

To Master Samuell Jeake in Rye"	Making new contacts, 1679	ENGLISH	131		To Master Samuell Jeake in Rye		1679	RICHARD PICKERSGILL	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""RICHARD PICKERSGILL"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_86	ESRO FRE 4890	[86] Bernard Coudert to Samuel Jeake junior, 6 May 1679. Original letter.	117	Bernard Coudert		Sir Yours att Command	"Samuel Jeake Junior Nants, May 6"" 1679"				"Samuel Jeake Junior Nants, May 6"" 1679
Sir I am Honoured with yours of the 19"" March wherein I Doe obsarve By
the Recommendation of Mr Claude Hays of London you are pleased to
apply your selfe unto mee for your correspondant. In answer I doe acknowlidge
my selfe oblidged unto Mr Hays for his kindness to Procure me your
acquaintance when occasion shall present on the parts to sarve you may be
assured of my Readyness with all the care & punctualitie that can be expected.
In doeing my best Endeavour for Promotteing your Intrest as my owne. Our
Brandys are this day sould att 45 lb 10s [words illegible] whitte from 80 to 85
lb the tyn, Best High country claretts from 88 to 100 lb the ton, [words lost]
95 lb Nante wines from 36 to 45 lb, Black Borneef Salt 20 lb. The charge
croisie & Pouliquer 18 lb. the [word illegible]. If you order me to Loade any
Goods for your account may bee pleased to remitte mee the Provision Bills
upon Paris. If nott [word lost] order somes eminent freinds in London to
accept my bills for your account. I [do] nott know what manifactures you
have in your Parts that I may advise you as for Lead is att 30 [word illegible]
the 100/00 Suffolk Butter 241b the gall. I doe kindely value you & as for my
commission I tacke 2 % per %

Sir Yours att Command

Bernard Coudert

I have forgotten to tell you that your letter dated of the 19"" March I did
receave it onely this day By addresse of Mr L'homme of Paris have a care of

him for his Business were nott curr[en]t a whille ago. This for your Government.

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Merchand in Rye via London"	Making new contacts, 1679	ENGLISH	304		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Merchand in Rye via London	"I have forgotten to tell you that your letter dated of the 19"" March I did
receave it onely this day By addresse of Mr L'homme of Paris have a care of
him for his Business were nott curr[en]t a whille ago. This for your Government."	1679	JAMES LE GRIELL	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES LE GRIELL"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_87	ESRO FRE 4895	[87] Michel Savary to Samuel Jeake junior, 19 May 1679. Original letter.	118	Mich: Savary Jun	Sir	"Your humble Servant
Pray bee pleased to present my humble Service unto your good father."	"London 19"" May 1679"				"London 19"" May 1679

Mr Jeake
Sir
I have yours before mee of the 12"" Instant per answer I have spoken with
sume acquaintance, touching those things you writte of, I perseive will doe
well to send them up, on such apart as you thinke good to Mr Mackley that
the same may bee seen, for without no one will treate to any purpose, &
farther tis high time to expose the fans Especially to salle, for if they bee not
sold in a month will indanger to keepe them till next yeare & in that time, the
fashons may differ which is your [word illegible] & if soe will indanger to
loose by them this being the advise I can give you will accordingly [word
illegible] as shall seeme good, if you send [word illegible] things, & you judge
me cappable to serve in it, may freely Command him who is

Your humble Servant

Mich: Savary Jun

Pray bee pleased to present my humble Service unto your good father.

For Mr Samuel Jeake Merchant in Rye Sussex"	Making new contacts, 1679	ENGLISH	178	Mr Jeake	For Mr Samuel Jeake Merchant in Rye Sussex		1679	BERNARD COUDERT	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""BERNARD COUDERT"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_88	ESRO FRE 4897	[88] James & John Hays to Samuel Jeake junior, 26 May 1679. Original letter.	118	James & John Hays	Sir	Sir Your very humble servants	"M. Samuel Jeake Junior Calais the 26"" May 1679"			"Claude Hays, a London business contact of Samuel junior's mentioned in FRE 4894, which is
not included in this collection."	"M. Samuel Jeake Junior Calais the 26"" May 1679
Sir
Wee have yours of the 6/16"" Instant by which perceave that you beeing about
desiring an acquaintance here, of our brother Cl: Hays of London he hath
directed you to us, In answer wee kindley returne you thancks of all civiletyes
In case of any Concerns of ours in your parts, you may alsoe as any occasion
offers to Dispose of us, whoe shall be glad to receave your Command in any
tyme as beeing
Sir Your very humble servants
James & John Hays

Monsieur Samuel Jeake Le Jeune"	Making new contacts, 1679	ENGLISH	99	Monsieur Samuel Jeake Le Jeune			1679	MICHEL SAVARY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""MICHEL SAVARY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_89	ESRO FRE 4898	[89] Samuel Jeake junior to Peter Swymmer, 29 May 1679. Draft letter, not sent.	119		Sir		Mr Peter Swymmer Not sent Rye May 29 1679				"Mr Peter Swymmer Not sent Rye May 29 1679
Sir

Yours of the 13° Instant came to hand but yesterday, whereby perceive it
difficult to buy any great quantity of wheat with you & the time of year is so
far come on that we shall not have liberty if it could be bought to send a
vessell from hence to fetch it. We see but one way to doe any good which in
short is if you see any likelihood of buying a lesser quantity as of 200 or 150
or if not above 120 quarters Winchester, & can be certain to fit freight a
vessell to what you buy it & freight her from Padstow to Rye with it for 2s the
Winch[ester] quarter or thereabouts; If you judge it to be effected and could
for a beginning buy SO quarters or more of good wheat at 12 or 13 your
bushel of 21 gallons as you write the price it was then its possible you might
pick up enough in smaller parcells to freight a small vessell provided you can
have one in your Port. And we should be content to advance to 14 your bushel
if the cargo might be made up at different prizes not exceeding that. If you
have any prospect of accomplishment it will be requisite to be very diligent &
speedy & yet to do it without clamour, if you could make a beginning & buy
some indiff[erent] parcells of the principal farms we hope the rest might
comply & not advance much. We cannot allow more time for the buying &
shipping it then a month after the receipt of this Letter. So if you can effect it
as above you must not lose any time but fall to buying immediately with what
privacy you can, And for moneys draw on Mr Walter Monkeat at the Goate
in Lothbury London. Your bills shall be well paid, And if you fraight a vessell
must agree with the master to stay 14 days at Rye & if you can get him under
2s per quarter Winch[ester] but for a small matter we must not stand. We
desire your answer per first & if you proceed then every post or two as the
business goes forward. But if you see that neither such a quantity can be

bought nor a vessell hired at Padstow then pray desist altogether & only
favour us with a Line of answer."	Making new contacts, 1679	ENGLISH	413				1679	JAMES AND JOHN HAYS	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES AND JOHN HAYS"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_90	ESRO FRE 4903	[90] Bernard Coudert to Samuel Jeake junior, 15 July 1679. Original letter.	119	Bernard Coudert	Sir	Sir Yours att Command	"Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Nants Jully 15"" 1679"				"Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Nants Jully 15"" 1679
Sir

lam Honoured with yours of the 19"" Ultimo which I have this day Receaved
By convoyance of Mr Richard Pickersgill of Rouen, I am sorrie to hear the
Parliament hath noe Inclination of Reversing the Prohibition of French
Goods in your Parts, which Did Prevent you to Give your orders for Buying
any Goods for your account, But when it Please God to send us againe an
open Trade you may macke a Tryall of us & then may Be assured of my
Readynesse to sarve you with the Best of my Endeavours for answering your
Desires. If I had some occasions in your Parts I would Presume to accepte of
your Proffers & though I have non In your Place I am noe lesse engaged unto
your civillities for which I Doe Retturne you my Humble Thanskes. I kindely
salute you & Remayne

Sir Yours att Command

Bernard Coudert
Brandy att 40Ib the 29/8

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Merchant in Rye by via London"	Making new contacts, 1679	ENGLISH	175		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Merchant in Rye by via London	Brandy att 40Ib the 29/8	1679	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	PETER SWYMMER	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""PETER SWYMMER"""
j_91	ESRO FRE 4907	[91] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 16 August 1679. Original letter.	120	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	To Command	"Southwark August the 16"" 1679"				"Southwark August the 16"" 1679

Lo Cousin
Youer of the 12'"" Instant Received with a bill which I have bein att the Exchange
to gite it accepted but the marchant is oute of towen & will not be att home tell
Monday so it is not as yet accepted & I was this Day att the Excise Office &
spake to Mr Laurences & he Direcked me to another man which Informes me
that Mr Johnson will goes Dowen in Sussex next weake & if I would pay the
money hear he would give me a offices bill to be payed att sight by Mr Johnson.
He telles me it is better to have affices bill then to have it Drowen by Mr
Laurence. I thought it good furst to aquainte you of it before I payed the
Money for I advisied which one & thay sayed thay would not Doe so So I
thinke it may be the better way for you to Repay to Mr Johnson when he is in
the Country to Gite him to pay you so much money & so to Drawe youer Bill
one me & then you will be suer, but if you be satisfied other wayes send word
& I shall proceed as you shall order. I have payed youer bill of 6:13 to
Mr Robert Hayle I was with Mr Byndlos man & he hath not heared from
Mr Gillart so he informed me latter it being all but mine with my wives kind
love to you & sarvis to my uncle with love to other Relaitions we being got well
at home but my sonn hath gote an ague and is very Bad. I wreste

Youers Lo Cousin

To Command

John Mackley
Marke Chiswell hath so layed his bissness that we canot come to spake with
him thoues whear we have thought he hath layon hath Denye it & som that
Doth knowe whar he is will not tell ous for thay say the Reison is thay
understand thar is a Difference between ous he is afraid we will wrest him
his wife has promised that he should come to ous but I beleve we shall not

like of him.

To His Lo Cousin Mr Samuel Jeake Jun in Rye Sussex"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	381		To His Lo Cousin Mr Samuel Jeake Jun in Rye Sussex	"Marke Chiswell hath so layed his bissness that we canot come to spake with
him thoues whear we have thought he hath layon hath Denye it & som that
Doth knowe whar he is will not tell ous for thay say the Reison is thay
understand thar is a Difference between ous he is afraid we will wrest him
his wife has promised that he should come to ous but I beleve we shall not
like of him."	1679	BERNARD COUDERT	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""BERNARD COUDERT"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_92	ESRO FRE 4911	[92] Elizabeth Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 12 September 1679. Original letter.	121	Elizabeth Mackley	Lo: Cousin	"We will send it by Sloman this wake. This night my Coz Gofe is a bead of A
grill se."		Sept the 12 1679			"Lo: Cousin
these fue lines are of lett you understand that my husband hath bouth your

stif and he did goe to Apotercarey Halle and the Gentell man did say that
if he had not come in thy Gentell nam he would not have it for the prise
and he had 25s for the haulf onces and sefapneces [sic] for the boll my husband
hath som busens fell out more then we looked for soe that he could
not give you an Acount for he is very hard at work. My humbell serves to
my uncel with my due Respetes to your slef [sic] and my husband allsoe. I
thenk the Lord my childeren be indefrent prer disire my uncle to Remember
me in his pries my Lo: to sone I Ramin your lone [sic] Cozen and Sernt to

com[mand]
Elizabeth Mackley

Sept the 12 1679

We will send it by Sloman this wake. This night my Coz Gofe is a bead of A
grill se.

To her Respected Cos Mr Samuell Jacke Junior marchent in Rye in Susex
with care"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	181		"To her Respected Cos Mr Samuell Jacke Junior marchent in Rye in Susex
with care"		1679	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_93	ESRO FRE 4912	[93] Elizabeth Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 14 September 1679. Original letter.	121	Elizabeth Mackley	Lo: Coz:	My serves to my uncle & husband		Sept the 14 1679			"Lo: Coz:

lam very sory that I should be soe unwordey as to send you A Letter Aboute
your stufe and to forgeet it but I hope your Good nataer will pardon my
unwordess but if it be possebol to get any body that will bring it safe to your
hands I shall be very dilleinet [in] the sending of it by the furst ouptry I can
get. Pare coz plesed to pardon me In this tmham unhamson crime I much
Relie upon your good nuter and subcribe myself to be your Lo: Cozen and
most humbull sernt to command
Elizabeth Mackley

Sept the 14 1679
My serves to my uncle & husband

To her Respted Lo: Cos Mr Samuell Jeacke Junior marchant in Rye in Susex"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	127		To her Respted Lo: Cos Mr Samuell Jeacke Junior marchant in Rye in Susex		1679	ELIZABETH MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""ELIZABETH MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_94	ESRO FRE 4913	[94] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 20 September 1679. Original letter.	122	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	"Youers to Command
I thanke you for writing for me to your Cosin I sent it by the post that night"	"Southwark Sept. the 20"" 79"			"""The flesh and skin of the viper, or adder, was used in a variety of preparations and was thought
to haye great restorative powers. Nancy Cox and Karin Dannehl, 'ViolVizard
mask', in Dictionary
of Traded Goods and Commodities 15501820
(Wolverhampton, 2007), British History Online
http://www. britishhistory.
ac.uk/noseries
/tradedgoods
-dictionary/15501820
/violvizard
-mask
[accessed 7 July 2016}."	"Southwark Sept. the 20"" 79
Lo Cousin
Theas are to acquaint you that I have sente you Dowen the valantin salte of
vipers"" in a littell box. I ame sorey my wife shuld be so forgitfull as not to
send it the weak before the acaision was she was coled to my Cousin Goffe &
I was upe all the night at work so I hope you will not take it a mis frome ous
I have maide Inquiery concerning the selling those things you write aboute &
thay are not willing to by it being so late in the year, but I understand that he
gives 22s & 24s & 26s a Dozen if thay bee good but hee is not willing to by
them. I have payed the to bills one to Mr Briant & the other to Mr Carbine it
being all but my kind love to youer good selfe with sarvis to my uncle & love

to other Relaitions I wrest
Youers to Command

John Mackley
If Ihad not menshoned Esqe byol name, I had not bought the meadson which
I thinke is very Dear. I could not gite anything abated of 25s Od
& I was forced to by a Bottell which cost 0 6

For a box 01
25 7

I thanke you for writing for me to your Cosin I sent it by the post that night
Talow is now [worth] £42 a tun I hear, a [words lost] would not fech above
{word lost] a hund[red].

To Mr Samuel Jeake Marchant in Rye Sussex"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	262		To Mr Samuel Jeake Marchant in Rye Sussex	"If Ihad not menshoned Esqe byol name, I had not bought the meadson which
I thinke is very Dear. I could not gite anything abated of 25s Od
& I was forced to by a Bottell which cost 0 6
Talow is now [worth] £42 a tun I hear, a [words lost] would not fech above
{word lost] a hund[red]."	1679	ELIZABETH MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""ELIZABETH MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_95	ESRO FRE 4916	[95] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 30 September 1679. Original letter.	123	John Mackley	Lo: Cousin	Your lo Cousin		"Sept. the 30"" 79"			"Lo: Cousin

In Anser to yours of the 27"" Instant I have this Day bein at Mr Hayes who I
understand will now accept the bill which before he would not it was his man
that Denied me & to Day he tells me that thay have Received order from
Lointhier, who befor had ordered them not to accept any more bills till further
order frome him so you may please to send it up & I will gite it accept & will
send that & this I nowe have Dowen together tomorowe morning. I shall goe
& Received this bill of £38 I have Discorsed Mr Savery & he telles me one the
not accepting a bill I must proteste it presently & then you have the Law one
him to make you satisfaction who In Doss it to you & so it goes frome one to
aother tell it comes to him that was the Drawer to make good but he tells me
if a marchant tells me I have nowe advise pray kept it a poste or to one would
Gratifie so far as to Doe it but in so Doing you run a hazard for maybe the
marchant may Brake & then you cannot protest it so as to make him make it
good as you had it frome 2ly I may proteste it in youer name or my one which
you thinke fite, thurdly you may come one after the proteste is maid & make
him alowe all Charges, as for a bill that is accept if thay Refues to pay the
money it must be protested before sun sete It being all but my kind love to
ylour] selfe & sarvis to my uncle. I wrest

Your lo Cousin

John Mackley

Sept. the 30"" 79

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	310		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex		1679	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_96	ESRO FRE 4917	[96] Thomas Morris to Samuel Jeake junior, 30 September 1679. Original letter.	124	Thomas Morris	Sir & Worthy Friend	"Your assured loveing friend & servant
My Cordiall Respects to your Father."	"London the 30"" Septem 1679"				"London the 30"" Septem 1679
Sir & Worthy Friend
In answere to yours of the 27"" Instant, I am heartily sorry you are like to have
any trouble, but if the man be but good that you delivered your mony to, you
will have the the loss, But your friend here ought to have had the Bill protested
for non acceptance, before he has return'd it to you; As the case now
stands, you must send up the bill immediately, & gett it protested if the man
refuses still to accept it, if you please to send it to me or direct [words struck
out] your Cozin Mackley to come to me with it, I will gett it protested for you,
it must be without delay, and then that protest for non acceptance being sent
to you, you must goe with it to the man that endorsed the Bill to you, and
demand either your mony or security from him which if he be honest & will
stand, he cannot refuse you, for no merchant howe ever refuses it upon the
sight of any Protest, except he goes a one side andwho
But if he should refuse
to give you Security I suppose you may either make an attachment or bring
your action against him, But when the bill comes to be due, then if it be not
paid, you must have another Protest made for non payment (& that protest
must be made in due time, on the last day, or also it will be insignificant) and
then you may certainly maintaine an action against him, & tis but letting your
first action fall, when you commence a new one against him. But if he bea
substantiall man & no danger of his breaking or Running away, I think it
[words struck out] might be as well to bring your action against him for non
Payment of the Bill, & not before or to make an attachment, then if you can
as well have opportunity then to doe it. In this I think you will find a particular
answere to all your Queries, and it is the best advise I can at present give
you, & if I can doe you any further service therein, you may freely command
me who am
Your assured loveing friend & servant
Thomas Morris
My Cordiall Respects to your Father.

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Merchant in Rye"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	405		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Merchant in Rye		1679	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_97	ESRO FRE 4919	[97| John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 4 October 1679. Original letter.	125	John Mackley	Lo: Cousin	"Your Lo Cousin to Command
I shall att any time Indeavour if I mete with a disipointement to advise my
selfe the best I cane to searve you."	"Southwark October 4"" 79"				"Lo: Cousin
Youers of the 2"" Instant this day Came to my hand with the bill I formerly
sente you which I have goten accept & sente you with the other bill I had of
yours. I had Received youer bill of £38 and as I write you confering a bill
bieing protested be fore sun set it must be one the 3"" day which marchants
alowe as a Custome & if one shuld Doe it one the Day it is presisly Due thay
would Reck[on] one Redickles & plead the Custome of Marchant which is
the 3 dayes alowants. I have not as yet coled on Mr Tho: Morris to Returne
him youer thanks but Doe intende it when I have a opertunety, I did think to
my selfe that the bill I sente you would come to me againe to be protested hear
but that it fell out outherways for I could Remember Mr Godfrey sarved one
that I was against which so but I thought beter to send it you againe, Rather
then to medell tell you ordered me it being all but mine with my wives [kind]
love to youer good selfe & sarvis to my uncle & Lo: to all other Relations. I
wrest

Your Lo Cousin to Command

John Mackley

Southwark October 4"" 79

I shall att any time Indeavour if I mete with a disipointement to advise my
selfe the best I cane to searve you.

To Mr Sam Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	252		To Mr Sam Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex		1679	THOMAS MORRIS	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""THOMAS MORRIS"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_98	ESRO FRE 4925	[98] D. Lesport to Samuel Jeake junior, 22 December? 1679. Original letter.	125	D Lesport	Sir	"Your humble serv
As for the £2 2 by Mr Pickersgill passing by this place for England made mee
passe them to his accompt soe I Received nothing of Robert Moore."	"Deepe the 22"" [Dec?]1679"				"Deepe the 22"" [Dec?]1679

Sir

The hon[our] of yours was given from Robert Moore with & inclosed for Mr
Pickersgill which I send to his wiffe to send them forward for London where
hee is at present. I am glad that the goods I sent you came safe to your hands.
As to the Backwardnesse of them is none of my fault Being I shipped them
two days after Receipt of said Mr Pickersgill.

As for the provision that you dosire to pay [mee it] is not worth whille.
Assuring you that when you shall order mee any other Bussinesse I shall use
you favourally that you shall acknowledge for the effects. Desiring to Rest all
my life
Your humble serv
D Lesport

As for the £2 2 by Mr Pickersgill passing by this place for England made mee
passe them to his accompt soe I Received nothing of Robert Moore.

To Mr Sa: Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	159		To Mr Sa: Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye		1679	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_99	ESRO FRE 4927	[99] Richard Pickersgill to Samuel Jeake junior, 22 January 1679/80. Original letter.	126	Richard Pickersgill		"Your most humble Servant
Pray adres for me at Mr Benj* Smart Marchand in London"	Mr Samuel Jeake London the 22” January 1679				"Mr Samuel Jeake London the 22"" January 1679
Sir I have not for some tyme wrot you beinge when came for England did
desine to come by way of Rye but. after to oblidge some frindes I went by way
of Callais & dover but this day haveing receiving one from my wife at Rouen
she advisethe me that had receiving yours & that you had not had the Invoyce
of the small parsell goods sent you soe heare inclosed you have the coppiea
wantinge unto £214 which is w 71 1/3 Att 55d par Crowne, as the Charges
then went make £16: 6: 11d which I desire you would be pleased to reniit]
heare & make said bill payable at sight unto Mr Benj* Smartt under whose
covert you may please to write me in answer to the present, soe humbly
saluting you I Remaine

Your most humble Servant

Richard Pickersgill

Pray adres for me at Mr Benj* Smart Marchand in London

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	171		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye		1679	D. LESPORT	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""D. LESPORT"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_100	ESRO FRE 4938	[100] Elizabeth Dighton to Samuel Jeake junior, 12 March 1679/80. Original letter.	126	Eliz Dighton	Cozen Samuell	Remaine your truly loving Aunt till death		March 12 1679			"Cozen Samuell

I have sent a bundle & a letter by the Caryer & gave him 2d to drinck to put
it up dry that it may com to no whet & directions is in the letter what must be
done with the bundle & when it is sould let not the carrier pray exact upon
you, but take out the money out of it to pay for the Carage. With many
thancks for all your kindness & if you have anything for me to doe hear I shall
Recompense your love. I
Remaine your truly loving Aunt till death
Eliz Dighton
Southwark
March 12 1679

My kind love to my Cozen Mary Key. I pray her to Remember my love to
Martha Gribble & tell her I have been faine to loose 3s in her Bodies: if this
thing bee sould pray give her 5s of the money if she will have mee be at the loss,
for no more will com to her, I have not took the money for them yet, last
summer I was offered twelve shillings for them & was lought to loose soe much
on them: & while I sent to her to know of her they had bought, & have gon
about, till I have been weary to sell them, & could never com to the price again:

For Mr Samuell Jeake Junior at his Fathers house in Rye Sussex"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	237		For Mr Samuell Jeake Junior at his Fathers house in Rye Sussex	"My kind love to my Cozen Mary Key. I pray her to Remember my love to
Martha Gribble & tell her I have been faine to loose 3s in her Bodies: if this
thing bee sould pray give her 5s of the money if she will have mee be at the loss,
for no more will com to her, I have not took the money for them yet, last
summer I was offered twelve shillings for them & was lought to loose soe much
on them: & while I sent to her to know of her they had bought, & have gon
about, till I have been weary to sell them, & could never com to the price again:"	1680	RICHARD PICKERSGILL	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""RICHARD PICKERSGILL"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_101	ESRO FRE 4939	[101] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 13 March 1679/80. Original letter.	127	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	I sente you all the billes by Mr Miller.	"Southwark March the 13"" 1679/80"				"Southwark March the 13"" 1679/80
Lo Cousin
I thought good to write you word what I have done Conserning the bill of £40
payable by Mr Smith. I have beine att his house 3 times this Day to have
Received the money but he had Lefte no order for the payment of it & I
understand by his sarvants that he is gon in the country so thay still ordered
me to come frome time to time tell it was 4 a Clocke which time I thought was
as Long as as mite be Deferred for I could have but a slite Anser & thar one I
advised with Mr Savary & Mr Morris who wished me to conyey it to a
Notorey [that] I missed the money att 4 a Clocke so acording as thay ordered
me I have left it att a Notterey to be protested so I ame to cole for it one
Monday, Tis like thay will take the protest of & pay the money. The man
promesed me to take caer in it, tis thar usiall way after a bill is left with them
to send thar man to make a Demand of the Money which if thay Refuses to
pay thay protested for it I shall give you an accomt by next poste what is Done
in it. I have carried it to a suer man by Mr Savary advise. I shall be very
Carefull in youer other bill when Due to Received it or take the Care that no
Damages shall happen by neglect from me it being all frome youer Lo: Cousin

John Mackley

I sente you all the billes by Mr Miller.

To his Lo: Cousin Mr Sam Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	293		To his Lo: Cousin Mr Sam Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex		1680	ELIZABETH DIGHTON	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH DIGHTON"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_102	ESRO FRE 4940	[102] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 16 March 1679/80. Original letter.	128	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	Youer Loving Cousin	"Southwark March the 16"" 1679/80"				"Southwark March the 16"" 1679/80
Lo Cousin
My Laste to you was the 13"" Instant wharing I give you an accomt howe I
had proceded in the bill of £40 of Mr Smith & sences Did goe to the Noterey
& had the bill which cost me Is: 6d so he tould me Mr Smith would pay it so
I wente & Did Received the money & had my charges againe he was unwilling
to pay the Is: 6d it Coste me but I would not luse it for 1 Knowe it to be his
Due to pay it for I give tendants a note if thay had bene minded to pay it. Pray
present my sarvis to my uncle & love to my sister Mary with Love to youer
good selfe I wrest in hast

Youer Loving Cousin

John Mackley

fo Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	150		fo Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex		1680	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_103	ESRO FRE 4941	[103] Ann Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 19 March 1679/80. Original letter.	128	Ann Wightman	Loveing Coson	Your loveing Coson	London March 19 1679/80			"""Probably the Royal Exchange but could also be New Exchange, both known for selling
haberdashery wares and gloves."	"Loveing Coson
Youer I received with the things and J did send to sume of my Acquaintance
to se them as sone has they came to my hands they would Aben glad to have
had them if they had ben fashonable they tell me they were in fashon last
yeare they shewd me sume that wher now in fashon and they much defer from
youers therof they will not goe of at the Change."" I doe Intend to see at the
street shops and [then] I will doe my best endeavour to put them of and then
you shall heare further from me. This with our loves to sister Mary and sarves
to my uncle and youre selfe [word illegible]
Your loveing Coson

Ann Wightman

London March 19 1679/80"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	129				1680	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_104	ESRO FRE 4944	[104] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 27 March 1680. Original letter.	129	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	"Youer Lo: Cousin
I shall be at the sine of the sune the very next Dore att Mr Jn° Peake."	"Southwarke March the 27"" 1680"				"Southwarke March the 27"" 1680
Lo Cousin

Youers of the 16"" Instant I have Received & tharby understand you have
Received the bills which I sente by Mr Miller. I gave you an acount in my laste
that I had Received the bill of £40 & sences I was att Mr Jorrays 3 times &
spake with him my selfe & he kepe me of tell 5 a clock & then would have
given me a bill one a goldsmith, but I prevented his Dlayes Refused to write
my bill at his house tell I knowe the gouldsmith would accept his so we went
& when we came thar he Refused but after some Discourse between them he
Gave ouse a bill one a other so when we came thar they would not pay it so I
Returned thar againe, but att Laste he payed me the money it was paste 8 a
clocke before I had Received it & gote home with it. Lo Cousin I see you are
willing to let me have £30 for a year. I shall note faile you to Let you have it
againe in that time & thinke my selfe very much behoulding to you for it. I
have payed to Mr Gibbing £16 & to Mr Burkes £20 by youer order. I have not
as yet seine my Aunt to tell her what you write. I shall take youer advise to Lay
oute as lettell as I cane. It being all att present but my kind love to youer good
selfe & service to my uncle with love to sister. I wreste,

Youer Lo: Cousin

John Mackley

I shall be at the sine of the sune the very next Dore att Mr Jn° Peake.

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	301		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex		1680	ANN WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""ANN WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_105	ESRO FRE 4945	[105] Ann Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 11 April 1680. Original letter.	129	Ann Wightman	Loveing Coson			"Apr [11""] 1680"			"Loveing Coson

These are after our love to you and sarving to my uncle to lett you understand

that I have safe received the box you send as allsoe youre letter; I have endevored
all that I can to put of the things but are profeard very little above halfe
what they cost you and is but here and there one that will buy any of them att
all for them ther is one as ofered me for five of them just soe much as you say
they cost you an I am loft to take it tell I now your mind in it if you will take
it pray send me word next post. If they were mine owne I could not doe more
to get them of and to get gaine for them if you paid soe much for them you
whas not well used as for those things wee received this day I have showed
them to one first ecoutdheagreed and he would give me but twenty shillings a
dosen he says they have lost there sent but I will trye more and hope I shall
put them of. This desireing to here from you what I shall doe in it as soone as
you can possible. The meane time I [word illegible] as much as I can be done
this being all att present from youer cosen

Ann Wightman
Apr [11""] 1680

To Mr Samuel Jeak Junior in Rye Sussex"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	244		To Mr Samuel Jeak Junior in Rye Sussex		1680	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_106	ESRO FRE 4946	[106] Christopher Blackwood to Samuel Jeake junior, 3 April 1679/80. Original letter.	130	Chr Blackwood	Deare Cozin	Your affect lo Cozen	"Dublin Aprill the 3"" 1680"				"Dublin Aprill the 3"" 1680
Deare Cozin

I had your of 3"" Febb some tyme since And I have nowe at last mett with
Mrs Joane Booth the Executrix to Mr Mackley. Shee will shee tells mee see to
pay those £5 Legacies I am ordered to receive assoone as shee cann but that
as shee is a Legatee her selfe shee thinks it reason to pay her owne Legacy
firste I Doe believe I shall gett said £5 Legacies in some tyme which when
Received I shall remit the mony persuant to your order it being not worth
while to Lay out soe smale a sume in talo. Mrs Booth Desires to knowe where
and who arre the 10 children of W~ Mackley's Brother & Sister to whome are
left £5 a peece by the will and also Desires to knowe in what condition they
are because if they bee any way nessesitous I thinke shee will the rather discharge
their legacies first Conserning the which when you write againe signify
a Lyne. I doe thinke the woman means very honestly. Deare Cos I am Heartily
glad to heere of your welfare, as also that my good unckle is liveing and in
helth to whome presente my Reall Dewes And a Lyne from you nowe and
then is very acceptable to mee as wee are the onely children liveing of two
sisters Soe I desire to manifeste my selfe in all the bonds of Friendshipp and
kindness and should be rejoyct in any things to serve you which with mine
and my wives true love presented to your selfe, wishing you all prosperity in
this world and true happiness hereafter, I rest
Your affect lo Cozen
Chr Blackwood

For Mr Sam Jeake Junior Merchant in Rye in Sussex Rye, these in all 8d"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	304		For Mr Sam Jeake Junior Merchant in Rye in Sussex Rye, these in all 8d		1680	ANN WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""ANN WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_107	ESRO FRE 4948	[107] Ann Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 20 April 1680. Original letter.	131	Ann Wightman	Loveing Cosen,		London April 20 1680				"Loveing Cosen,

Mine and my husbans kind loves remember to you with our sarves to my
unkle this to let you know that I have put of the the [sic] things but with a
great dealle of lose and could not put them of better that very night received
your last I sould that passele wich I wrott to you abouth for Aleven shillings
and for all the other things I have lost greatly and soe you will find I wrot
you word that I whas bed twenty shillings A dosen I only showed the lite
coller wich was laid uppermost and I did thinke they where all one coller tell
Icame to sea them then they would give for them but twell shillings a dosen
and I lost my chapman at last I met with one wich bed for all of both sorths.
I had five pounds, three shillings and twenty I considered of it and I did
thinke I had better take him then let him goe for I had bid up and could not
mette with one that would give me soe as he did Soe of the things I have
maid five pounds, fourteen shillings. If it had bene my owne I could not a
sould them for more the mony my husband hath tell you please to order him
where he shall paid it soe not ous at present but remaine your Loveing cosen
to sarve

Ann Wightman
London April 20 1680

To Mr Samuel Jeak Junior in Rye Sussex"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	255		To Mr Samuel Jeak Junior in Rye Sussex		1680	CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1650	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	2	FALSE	"""CHRISTOPHER BLACKWOOD JR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_108	ESRO FRE 4976	[108] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 30 October 1680. Original letter.	131	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	"Youer Lo Cousin
To Command"		"October the 30"" 1680"			"October the 30"" 1680
Lo Cousin

Youers of 26 Instant Received with a bill for forty pounds one Mr Olnius to
be accept & when Due shall Goe & Received it I have spake to Mr Hayes who
tells me that he sent the to billes by Thursday past he semes to be disgusted
that you send youer bills to him he has so much bisness of his one that he
canot mind other on less thar was a protest in it for he said he had nothing for
provision nor posteds or porters of letters. He tould me he had Rather you
shuld send them to me then trubell him so if you pleas Rather than he shuld
be disgusted att youer sending to him I am freely willing to Due you any sarvis
that lie in my power to Due you. I ame sory to hear my uncle hath bein ill
but Glad to hear he is prety well againe pray present mine with my wives
sarvis to him with kind love to youer good selfe hopin youer health as blessed
be good we are att present I wrest
Youer Lo Cousin
To Command
John Mackley

My Brother Freebody is att ouer howse & disiers to be Remembered to you
he mete with som Brokers that maid bould to take moste of his Clothes &
money from him he Disiers to be Remembered to Mr Miller.

To Mr Sam Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye, Sussex"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	247		To Mr Sam Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye, Sussex	"My Brother Freebody is att ouer howse & disiers to be Remembered to you
he mete with som Brokers that maid bould to take moste of his Clothes &
money from him he Disiers to be Remembered to Mr Miller."	1680	ANN WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""ANN WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_109	ESRO FRE 4984	[109] Michel Savary to Samuel Jeake junior, 23 December 1680. Original letter.	132	Michel Savary	Sir	Your humble servant	Mr Samuel Jeake Junior London the 23th December 1680				"Mr Samuel Jeake Junior London the 23th December 1680
Sir

About 4 years since Robert Bartholomew useing betweene London & France
I Brought in my Brother Mr Mathieu Hebert for 1/8 part of his ketch, expecting
would have followed imply as hee promised to doe & therby might have
been a comfort to them both. But since has Ever done his pleasure & gone
weather has Lusted without Ever giving any accompte, which is a greate disheartening
to that End he having noe acquaintance with you I take the liberty
to trouble you in it & to desire you would bee pleased to speake with him &
to know his designes therein being uneasie to bring [word illegible] one, &
take his money which was £25 afterwards to deale soe unworthylie especially
with a man who has been Ready att all times to service him to his power Being
therefore wearied with the same I farther intreate you to Indeavour if possible
to sell the same 1/8 part provided £20 & with all pray tell him when ever hee
comes here, hee will not lett him goes untell hee has both given him an account
& disposed of his part, poss[ibl]e hee may doe it himselfe when you propose
the same to prevent greate trouble unto him J am sorry to trouble you but
crave excuse, being for a meane friend & in the like occasion pray freely command
him who is wishing you all happinesse in this new yeare comeing, my
service to your good father & unto your selfe being

Your humble servant
Michel Savary

For Mr Samuel Jeake Marchant in Rye Sussex"	Negotiating Debts, 1679-1680	ENGLISH	275		For Mr Samuel Jeake Marchant in Rye Sussex		1680	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_110	ESRO FRE 4992	[110] James Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 12 February 1681. Original letter.	140	James Wightman	Loving Cousin	Your loving Cosin	"London 12"" Feb: 1680/1"				"London 12"" Feb: 1680/1
Loving Cousin
Yours I received this day and understand you would have a fashionable watch,
that which I would advise you to is a pendulum watch as wee call them, which
is with a spring under the balanc which regulats the worke soe that it goes
better then one with a balance onely as for the studed caces they are still in
fashon onely some allteration in the order of them the price of such a watch
will be £7: but if you fix upon such a one as Mr Smiths it was a shillin or two
under five pounds and ten shilling, pray be pleased to send which you pleas to
have and I shall take extraordinary care in making it, this with our respects to
your selfe and second with our sarvis to my uncle I rest
Your loving Cosin
James Wightman

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	156		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1680	MICHEL SAVARY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""MICHEL SAVARY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_111	ESRO FRE 4993	[111] James Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 19 February 1681. Original letter.	140	James Wightman	Loving Cousin	Your loving Cosin	"London Feb 19"" 1680/1"				"London Feb 19"" 1680/1
Loving Cousin
Yours I received and acording to youer desire have sent the bonds and the
Ring by Moone the carrier and hope they will come safe to hand, the Ring
was three peny wait seven grains, the watch I shall be very carefull in the
doing of it and shall be as speedy as I can this with our sarvis to youer selfe
and your Lady and allsoe to my uncle I remaine
Your loving Cosin
James Wightman

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	91		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1681	JAMES WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_112	ESRO FRE 4996	[112] Mark Chiswell to Samuel Jeake junior, 15 March 1680/1. Original letter.	141	Mark Chiswell	Sir	Pray derect youer letter to my Brother Mackley house.	"London the 15 day
of March 1680"				"Sir
My kind Respects to you and youer Father Sir I doe understand that you doe
lett out money by the voage to Newcastell for twelve pence in the pound I am
short of money my fraight will not [stock] me to Newcastell I shall want
about Fivtenn pounds If you please to lett me have it here I shall pay it you at
the Return of my voage with the intrest implyment is verey dead here I cannot
get affraight that will produce aney proffitt they proffer me but thirtey five
shillings alast to goe to Stockholm and back to London for France I cannot
find affraight. Sir I doe desier youer anser by the post this is all that I have at
present to troboll you. I Remain youer loving Frend to command

Mark Chiswell
London the 15 day
of March 1680

Pray derect youer letter to my Brother Mackley house.

This for Mr Samuell Jeak Junior Living in Rye in Sussex"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	164		This for Mr Samuell Jeak Junior Living in Rye in Sussex		1681	JAMES WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_113	ESRO FRE 4998	[113] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 24 March 1680/1. Original letter.	141	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	"Youer Lo Cousin
My aunte Dighton Remembers her kind love to youer selfe & wife & to my
uncle & mother. Lo Cousin I understand by youer bro: Mr Miller hath sume
moskets to sell if so I Disier you to by me one if thay be not to Dear & send
by the Carrier."		"March the 24"" 1680/1"			"March the 24"" 1680/1

Lo Cousin
Youers of the 17'"" & 19 Instant I Received & this Day have bein att Mr Peter
Bar & Received those 2 bills of one hundred pounds a peas & I have payed to
Mrs Eliz: Chadwick a bill of 16:16 as by youer order & I have hear inclosed &
sente the Rest the bound is not yet sealed by Marke Chiswell for he hath the
ofer of a vidge to Ireland & he shall not knowne the Resulte tell to morrow
when sealed by him I shall take care & sende it to you it being all but min with
my wives sarvis to youer selfe & wife & good uncle & to youer mother. I wrest

Youer Lo Cousin

John Mackley

My aunte Dighton Remembers her kind love to youer selfe & wife & to my
uncle & mother. Lo Cousin I understand by youer bro: Mr Miller hath sume
moskets to sell if so I Disier you to by me one if thay be not to Dear & send
by the Carrier.

To Mr Sa Jeake Jun Marchant in Rye Sussex"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	191		To Mr Sa Jeake Jun Marchant in Rye Sussex		1681	MARK CHISWELL	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""MARK CHISWELL"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_114	ESRO FRE 4999	[114] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 26 March 1681. Original letter.	142	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	"Youer Lo Cousin
I ame Deter somethin about this bisness for posted of letter Disier you to
write me next post for he will I beleve be gon att the later end of the weak."		"March the 26"" 1681"			"March the 26"" 1681

Lo Cousin
I write you laste poste war in I aquanted you that I had Received the too bills
you sente me the acaison of writing now to you is to Disier you to write mea
letter to youer Cousin in Irland about that small Leagcy that was leafte me!
having a opertunity to send by my Brother Chiswell he hath taken a vidge to
Dublin: in Ireland so if you please to menshon in youer letter if he hath
Received it to pay it to my Bro: Chiswell & Disier he would Indeavour to gite
it when he is thar, my Bro: hath hyered his wife to lode corne hear & to lode
back againe & he hath bargned to have £60 for the vidge he will not make use
of youer money. [With] my sarvis to my uncle & to youer good selfe & wife!
wrest

Youer Lo Cousin

John Mackley

I ame Deter somethin about this bisness for posted of letter Disier you to
write me next post for he will I beleve be gon att the later end of the weak.

To Mr Sa Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	198		To Mr Sa Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex		1680	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_115	ESRO FRE 5002	[115] James Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 19 April 1681. Original letter.	142	James Wightman	Loving Cousin	My sister Wightman is well and my cosin they being in London.	"London April 19"" 1681"				"London April 19"" 1681
Loving Cousin
After our kind loves to you and my Cosin these are to acquaint you that J sent
the gloves and braslets and allsoe the ring in a peec of paper put between the
Gloves and hope they came safe to your hands they being sent by the Carier
last weeke there was allsoe a booke sent att the same time for my uncle pray
present my sarvis to him and tell him the booke cost twenty shilling I hope it
such a one that he writ for, if it be not pray desire him to send it up and I shall
readily chang it; the most I could make of the thing he sent was 18s -6d1
intend to send your watch by the Carier Moone this week by whome you
may expect it; I would intreat you to doe me the favour to receive about
eleven pound of my Bro: Holt for me and returne it to me when you can
conveniently this being all att present From your loving cosin
James Wightman
My sister Wightman is well and my cosin they being in London.

For Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	200		For Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1681	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_116	ESRO FRE 5003	[116] James Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, undated. Original letter.	143	Cosin James Wightman	Lo: Cosin	Pray lett me have a line or two whether it comes safe to your hands,					"Lo: Cosin

I have hear sent you a very good watch one the upper plate where the Endles
screw use to be there is a screw to turne which comands the spring under the
Balanc which will make it goe faster or slower as you please as you turne it
you will find a little brass peer slide two and from which poynts to the fugars
that ar graven .1:2:3:4: to increase the fugars make it goe faster and decrease
slower the lowest price will be £6 15s which is Ss cheaper than I have sould the
worst that I have made of this sorte this with our kind loves and sarvis to you
and your wife and all friends I remaine your loving

Cosin James Wightman

Pray lett me have a line or two whether it comes safe to your hands,"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	142				1681	JAMES WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_117	ESRO FRE 5005	[117] Ann Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 30 April 1681. Original letter.	143	Ann Wightman	Loveing Coson			April the 30 1681			"Loveing Coson

Youre noe received by Mrs Miller and this day one by the post with the Abill
in it Acording to your desire I did goe with intent to bye the clouth but when
Icame I could not gett one under to shillings and to pence and to shillings the
ell that ples me and that whas very good but I intend to se further next weke
and sene it truly I did bed to shillings for that they assks to shilling one to
pence but they would not let me have it soe for I bye for you as I woude for
my selfe if you be free [words struck out] to goe soe hie pray sen{d] me word
next post and what [word illegible] me with. Send it all together next weke soe
mine and husbands sarvis to my unkle and kind respects to you and wife in
hast I wrest your loveing coson to sarve

Ann Wightman
April the 30 1681"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	165				1681	JAMES WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_118	ESRO FRE 5007	[118] Elizabeth Dighton to Samuel Jeake junior, 16 May 1681 [?] Original letter.	144	Eliz: Dighton	Loveing Cosin	"Truely loveing aunt
Through the descomposer of my mind I have write badly but I hop you will
read it. I pray remember me to your mother."		May the 16			"Loveing Cosin
I pray you would excuse my unthankfullness that have not write sence wee
received our gloves: It hath not been for want of acceptance in mee but for want
of time I wish you true happiness in your match I have sent my cousin your wife
6 pounds of sugar by Mr Benby: though a small token I pray accept my love in
it: I shall be glad to see a letter from you when you receved it: my mind is not
compose to write much so at present but shall wish your welfare so with all our
love and thanks to you and cosin your wife I take leave of you and remain your
Truely loveing aunt
Eliz: Dighton
May the 16

Through the descomposer of my mind I have write badly but I hop you will
read it. I pray remember me to your mother.

This for my cousin Mr Samuel Jeake"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	156		This for my cousin Mr Samuel Jeake		1681	ANN WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""ANN WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_119	ESRO FRE 5009	[119] James Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 17 May 1681. Original letter.	144	James Wightman	Loving Cosin	Your loving cosin	London May 17 1681				"London May 17 1681
Loving Cosin
Yours I Received with the Bill and have allsoe Received the mony and your
other letter about the watch for Mr Waylett I supose he means to have a
spring watch by the price which shall be made with all speed, but it will not be
as soon as he might have a chain watch for those I have ready made, which
will cost him butt £4 12 s in a plain leather case and will be more convenient
for him, because not subject to Breake; pray cosin let me have a line or two
from you of his minde, as for your shute and other things that you writ for I
intend to send god willing the next weeke the Taylor being not able to finish
them before Whitson tide this with mine and my wifes love and sarvis to you

and my cosen and all friends in hast I rest
Your loving cosin

James Wightman

Pray when you send be pleased to lett me know how Mr Miller doth and
present my sarvis to him.

To Mr Samuel Jeak Junior in Rye Sussex"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	191		To Mr Samuel Jeak Junior in Rye Sussex	"Pray when you send be pleased to lett me know how Mr Miller doth and
present my sarvis to him."	1681	ELIZABETH DIGHTON	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH DIGHTON"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_120	"ESRO FRE 5047"""	[120] James Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, undated. Original letter.	145	James Wightman	Loving Cousin						"Loving Cousin

I received yours this day and have been with my Taylor about your shute but
find him unwilling to make it except he may have a measure sent up or else
one of your coatse for he siath it will not be well made without one of them
if you send a measure he desires that they that take it may write one it which
is the breasst and which the wast and the rest; he tells me that wast coats are
in fashon and they weare them very long but flowerd silk is little worne but
goold and silver striped is much worne, and if you lace it before it must allsoe
be laced round the skirt and and the slitts allsoe as for the lining he sais it will
not be sutable to the rest if you line it with Persian tafety, but it should be a
ticher silke frost button is still in weare and Goold or Goold and silver, upon
sad colour cloath which is much worne, as allsoe dark greys are much in
Weare, the button that is in fashon is a prity high button with ridges but they
doe not weare very well as I am informed but looke hansom on a shute; I
think a hatt of the price you write of will be two meane for you; I think a
beaver would doe well and for £3 you may have good one, but you may does
as you please and lett me know your mind about these things and I shall sarve
you to the utmost of my abilitty. This with our harty respects to your selfe
and cosin and sarvis to father and mother is all att present from your loving
cosin

James Wightman

If you send your coat it may doe well and if I could know your mind I would
indeavour to have it done the next weeke; if you send a measure. I believe it
will not be much charge to send it in a letter,

To Mr Samuel Jeak Jun in Rye Sussex"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	348		To Mr Samuel Jeak Jun in Rye Sussex	"If you send your coat it may doe well and if I could know your mind I would
indeavour to have it done the next weeke; if you send a measure. I believe it
will not be much charge to send it in a letter,"	1681	JAMES WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_121	ESRO FRE 5011	[121] James Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 28 May 1681. Original letter.	145	James Wightman	Loving Cosin		"London May the 28"": 1681"			"""Dowlass was a coarse linen cloth. DTGC, 'Doublet - Dozens'.
474 pomander was a mix of aromatic substances usually fashioned into a ball and contained in
a small bag. They were made to be carried in the hand or pocket or, as is seems in this case,
suspended from a chain to be worn around the neck or waist. DTGC, ""Pocket - Pompon'.
*This line inserted in Samuel junior's hand.
* OED, galloom or galloon a. A kind of narrow, closewoven
ribbon or braid, of gold, silver, or
silk thread, used for trimming articles of apparel; a trimming of this material."	"London May the 28"": 1681
Loving Cosin

After mine and my wifes Respects to you and my cosen with my sarvis to my
uncle and your mother unknown these are to lett you understand that I have

""This letter has been placed here, rather than in the order indicated by the ESRO catalogue as it
makes reference to the purchase of Samuel junior's suit.
sent those things you sent for viz your shute hatt and band, for I am toulda
Ribon the same of the shoulder knot is quite out of weare and this very fashonable
there is allsoe sent 19 ells of doulass* and pomeander braslets"" anda
paire of stokens you will find in the box a peece of silk and what cloath that
was left allsoe two or three o[ld] buttons in the pocket as I am tould I hopeall
things will fit and please you allsoe I having done my best Indeavor pray lett
me have a line or two that I may know whether the shute fitts for I have a great
desire to heare you will find under written an account of all which will be all
att present from your loving cosin

James Wightman

A wedding ring the paire about 13 or 14 s for which I desire you to looke in
my letter having lost the paper I set it downe one, as alsoe for the first bonds
which was in the same paper

+83 pwts 7 gr - 13s: 2d. Fashion 2s: 6d - 15s: 8d. Bonds 1s: 6d 0017
-02
a Joynt Ring 0010
-00
a pendelum wattch 0615
-00
two Pomander Brasletts 0002
-00
two paire of white gloves 0004
-00
2 yards and quarter of cloath att 15s 06d per yard 0114
-09
5 yards of silk with goold and silver att 12 s per yard 0300
-00
19 ells of doulass att 01s - 09d 0113
-03
a white hatt 0015
-06
a band to the hatt 0005
-06
a pair stokens 0004
-00
a quire of bonds 0001
-06
for 8 doz Buttons att 3s6d
per doz 0108
-00
for 4 doz and half of brest buttons 0007
-06
for 4 yards and quarter of tafetty 0007
-00
for a shoulderknot 0014
-00
for goold and silver stichin 0009
-00
for making a coate, hose and wastcoate 0014
-00
for Colard Calecoe 0002
-06
for whit Calecoe to your wast Coate (0001
-06
for silke and 4 yds of galome"" 0002
-06
for Calecoe to your hoase pockets and reviting 0005
-00
for Stayes and fine drawing (002
-06
A box and postedge Is 6d
*Summe Tot £21=Wis18d
Letters O-- 08
21: 8-- 4

To Mr Samuel Jeak Junior in Rye Sussex"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	455		To Mr Samuel Jeak Junior in Rye Sussex	"A wedding ring the paire about 13 or 14 s for which I desire you to looke in
my letter having lost the paper I set it downe one, as alsoe for the first bonds
which was in the same paper"	1681	JAMES WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_122	ESRO FRE 5014	[122] James Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 9 June 1681. Original letter,	147	James Wightman	Loving Cosin	Your loving Cosin	"London June 9"" 1681"			"""Calculations of total inserted in Jeake junior's hand.
""The walks and gardens belonging to the inn called the Abbot of Battle, on the north side of
Tooley Street were known as the Maze. 'The borough of Southwark: Manors', in A History of
the County of Surrey: Volume 4, ed. H. E. Malden (London, 1912), pp. 14151.
British History
Online http://www. britishhistory.
ac.uk/vch/surrey/vol4/pp141151
[accessed 24 July 2016].
""Edward Fitzharris, implicated in the Popish Plot, executed in July 1681. Alan Marshall,
'Fitzharris, Edward (d. 1681)', ODNB."	"London June 9"" 1681

Loving Cosin

Yours I receved as allsoe the bill and the mony up one it I am very glad to hear
that your shute fits reasonable well, if ther be anything worth the sending up
to alltter pray send it and it shall be done; the taylors bill came to £53s
- 6d
and I could get him to abate but one shilin; which I have in my hands of
yours; the occatione of my writing now is to desire you to lend me fifty pounds
for six months att the end of which you shall have it againe with Interest it will
doe me a great kindness att this time for I have a bout a hundred and fifty
pounds worth of watches and clocks bespoke for turkey and have none by me
of the sort they would have of, therefore must make with all speed they being
to goe in the next shiping, which will be a bout 6 weeks henc as they tell me,
and it is the shortnes of the time puts me to this straight for our workmen
never tryst but rather have ther mony before hand; therfor I shall not be able
well to compas my bisnes without asistance. I could have mony heare but not
without paying extortione; which I am not willing to doe; therfore if you have
soemuch to spare and are willing to let me have it for the time above mentioned
pray lett me have a line or two of it and I shall be willing to give you any
security you shall desire; this with our respects and sarvis to you all I remaine

Your loving Cosin
James Wightman

This morning hapned a great fire in the maze in Southwark"" and burnt down
about 25 or 30 houses. This day Fitzharis was tryed att the Kings bfenc]h bar
and was bought in guilty of high treasons."" He supeanied severall witness one
his be halfe but the particulars of his tryall I know not having not had time to
inquire, but I supose Mr Miller hath sent a more particular account to his
brother for he tould me he would write. Yesterday Plunket the titular primat
of Ireland was tryde and found guilty of high treason.*"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	381			"This morning hapned a great fire in the maze in Southwark"" and burnt down
about 25 or 30 houses. This day Fitzharis was tryed att the Kings bfenc]h bar
and was bought in guilty of high treasons."" He supeanied severall witness one
his be halfe but the particulars of his tryall I know not having not had time to
inquire, but I supose Mr Miller hath sent a more particular account to his
brother for he tould me he would write. Yesterday Plunket the titular primat
of Ireland was tryde and found guilty of high treason.*"	1681	JAMES WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_123	ESRO FRE 5015	[123] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 9 June 1681. Original letter.	148	John Mackley	Respected Cousin	"Lo: Cousin
The bill of Mr Hayes I this Day luking one it find it to be Dated 15""/5 which
makes the 5 & 3 Days of the alowance makes the 8 Day. I Canot tell but I may
be mistaken you write tis not Due tell the 16 of June if it be sooner I have
sliped the time."		"Jun the 9"" 1681"			"Jun the 9"" 1681
Respected Cousin
I had thought not to have written you tell Saterday but we haveing bein
frighted with a fier which hath burnte a boute 30 housis thought good to give
you an account it was att the uper end of the Maies as you goe to Mr Winson
Milleing howes tis thought it came by trichery I have Received the bill of £5
of Mr John Burke & have payed to Br: Whightman £21: 8: 4 & to Mr Bateman
the bill of £8 & when these other bills are Due shall Received them & pay
according to youer order this Day. [Words lost] to youer mothers order my
wife being near [h]er time of travell I Disier youer prayers with my uncle for
her that the Lord would be pleased to give her a safe delivery. It being all but
my sarvis to your good selfe & wife & uncle & to youer mother. I wrest youer
Lo: Cousin
John Mackley

The bill of Mr Hayes I this Day luking one it find it to be Dated 15""/5 which
makes the 5 & 3 Days of the alowance makes the 8 Day. I Canot tell but I may
be mistaken you write tis not Due tell the 16 of June if it be sooner I have
sliped the time.

To Mr Sa Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	234		To Mr Sa Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex		1681	JAMES WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_124	ESRO FRE 5017	[124] James Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 18 June 1681. Original letter.	148	James Wightman	Loving Cosin	"Your loving cosin
I would desire you if Mr Waylet pays you, to pay your selfe what charg you
have been att for letters and allsoe the shilen that I have of yours."	London June 18: 168]			"* Oliver Plunkett, titular primate of Ireland, implicated in the Popish Plot and executed in July
1681. John Hanly, 'Plunket, Oliver [St Oliver Plunket] (16251681)
', ODNB."	"London June 18: 168]
Loving Cosin
Yours I received with a bill for £45 and did allsoe receve the mony one the bill
you did in your letter desire a bond for the mony, [word lost] which I did signe
and seale in the presents of my bro: and sister Mackley and a neighbour of
his, and did deliver it to your use, and take it kindly that you give me Credit
for 6 months; att which time god willing it shall be punctually paid, I have
sent the bond downe by the Carrier and the watch for Mr Waylet the price is
£4 5s, I hope it will pleas him, it being a very strong and good one as he
desired and his name one the case allsoe. This with mine and my wifes respects
to you and my cosin, with our sarvis to my uncle is all att present from

Your loving cosin

James Wightman

I would desire you if Mr Waylet pays you, to pay your selfe what charg you
have been att for letters and allsoe the shilen that I have of yours.

It is not the fashon to wear the coat loosse in the body therefore it will be
convenient to alter it and as for it being short wasted it is much easier to mend
then if it had been to long in the wast.

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	The well-dressed man about town, 1681	ENGLISH	239		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex	"It is not the fashon to wear the coat loosse in the body therefore it will be
convenient to alter it and as for it being short wasted it is much easier to mend
then if it had been to long in the wast."	1681	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_125	ESRO FRE 5018	[125] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 21 June 1681. Original letter.	149	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	"youer lo Cousin
We did not knowe that youer kinswoman was sicke tell yesterday. He tould me
the Doctor had given her over."		Jun the 21* 1681			"Jun the 21* 1681

Lo Cousin

After my kind love to youer good selfe & wife with my sarvis to my uncle theas
are to acquainte you that my wife was taken ill one Saterday night about 12 a
clock and was brought to bead of a sonn just be fore the clock struck 2 which I
Disier youers with my uncle prayers of thankes to the Lord that he hath bein
pleased to give her a safe delivery shee is nowe not very well which we judge is
by Reason of her Milke, Mr Laines Disiered me to write to you aboute your
kinswoman lying sicke of the small pox which sences he spake to me we understand
shee is this Day Dead I have payed Mr Goodenough the £100 & to my
Bro: Wightman the £45 all which you ordered it being all att present frome

youer lo Cousin

John Mackley
We did not knowe that youer kinswoman was sicke tell yesterday. He tould me
the Doctor had given her over.

To Mr Sa Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye"	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	181		To Mr Sa Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye		1681	JAMES WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_126	ESRO FRE 5020	[126] Nathaniel Hartshorne to Samuel Jeake junior, 28 June 1681. Original letter.	150	Nath: Hartshorne	Deare Brother	Your Sure Loving Brother	"London June the 28""
1681"				"Deare Brother
Yours of the 20"" wherein my mother saith she is not willing that I should
make any such composition with my Mrs whither her truly am I willing forby
some of my Friends I am advised to the contrary it tendeth wholy to my
ruine, I confess my selfe in error in not returning thankes but yet now I would
not have my Mother thinke that now I suppose my selfe provided for that I
disrespect her or any one else for I write without dissimulation that I do as
faithfully love and respect you all as ever I did and I hope that no one thinketh
any other by me neither will I give any occasion. I thanke you heartily for
your good advise I were something in hast when I wrote my last or else I had
expressed my selfe forever bound in duty to my Deare Mother for this which
she hath now done for me, I feare I shall never be capable to retaliate, I am
still I must say with as good a Mrs as I desire but she is not so good as she
should be But I told my Master how I were used and he hath in some measure
regulated that concerning my Victuales, I have borrowed six shillings to
purchase me another hatt and I had four shillings left and added to it but will
not buy me so good an hatt as I would have, I didn't write for money for any
extravigant expenses but merely necessary, I want a paire of sleves to save my
Cloths For my old Cloths are quite done. And my Mother told me when I
were at Rye she would willingly allow me money in my pocket, provided I
were not extravagant, I have now a care of it when I have it I find it is no so
easily gotten as spent I am now very sensible Mistris is a woman that doth me
a greate deale of injury in exporting of false things to my Mr But I have made
somethings appeare false a little publiquely which hat put a stopp to her infamous
proceedings. Pray remember my Duty to Mother and intreat her not to
be discomfited for I hope we shall all one day meet together, I should be glad
and returne you hearty thankes if I could have once a weeke a lettre of good
advise from and Uncle so with my Sincere respects To my Uncle, selfe and
wife I Rest
Your Sure Loving Brother
Nath: Hartshorne
London June the 28""
1681

wr Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	444		wr Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1681	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_127	ESRO FRE 5290	[127] Richard Goodenough to Barbara Hartshorne, 2 August 1681. Original letter.	151	Richard Goodenough.	Madam,	your humble servant	London 2° Aug 1681				"London 2° Aug 1681

Madam,

I received yours in its proper time and should have long before now have
returned you an Answere had not some accidentall affaire prevented it, I
wondered to heare of your sons complaints that he wants Victualls; The reason
I suppose is for that he having had whole Joynts of meat sometimes set
before him & being left to help himselfe, he hast so indulged it that what
remained was not fit to be set before any man, for which he hath been often
reproved by me & my wife. As for beaff also he hath allowed him Bread &
Beere which is more than was allowed me when I was a Clerk, He hath constantly
hot meat for dinner & bread & butter or cheese for supper which is as
much as I allow my own children, & the course I have always observed in
housekeeping,
which was never so traduced (as I know of till now) till this
done by your son, His Ribaldry I complain off is down right bawdry, no man
I beleeve can think me so [word lost] or ridiculous to accuse him for such
things for asking for Victualls only, besides he was generally doing mischiefe
(whereof I have severall instances) to the goods in & about my house. And
though catched in the Act yet did as impudently deny all as he doe to you his
ribaldry, for your sake I am willing to trye him a little longer hopeing his
Amendment, which if he doth not we shall not continue long togather, And
as for the Termes if he should persist in his impudence & by Acting & writeing
lyes endeavour to expose me, that shall be settled by indifferent persons.
But if he wants Victualls (as I understand he hast writ to you he does) I suppose
you'll be ready to remove him, which you may so soon as you please with
all my heart, And in that case alsoe the same Method shall if you think fit be
used to adjust what shall be returned, I am very sincere in what I now write,
& should be loath to say more (though I could inlarge very much in this matter)
seeing my credit must be brought in competition with your sons (according
as he boasts himselfe) [words struck out] In your not believing anything
against him, notwithstanding which I am Madam

your humble servant

Richard Goodenough."	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	411				1681	NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_128	ESRO FRE 5025	[128] Richard Goodenough to Samuel Jeake junior, 1 October 1681. Original letter.	152	Richard Goodenough	Sr	"Sr
Your humble servant"		1° Oct 1681			"Sr
I must desire that you would be pleased to take away your Brother from me,
he is so lewd & so unruly that twill be impossible for me to keep him in any
due Decorum, I could mention very [word struck out] great motives (indeed
not to be dispensed with) That forces me to give you this trouble I am

Sr

Your humble servant

Richard Goodenough
1° Oct 1681

For Mr Samuell Jeake Jun att Rye in Sussex"	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	79		For Mr Samuell Jeake Jun att Rye in Sussex		1681	RICHARD GOODENOUGH	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	MALE	FEMALE	UNK	UNK	UNK	1600-1640	PATRON	UNK	UNK	UNK	UNK		UNK	"""RICHARD GOODENOUGH"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_129	ESRO FRE 5027	[129] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 29 October 1681. Original letter.	152	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	"Youer Lo Cousin
[Youler bro: Nat: is very well & Disiers to be Remembered to you all"	"Southwark October 29"" 1681"				"Southwark October 29"" 1681
Lo Cousin
These are to let you Knowe that I have bein [words lost] those 2 bills of Mr
Bar one of £80 & one of £16=15s and the bill of £60 is accepted by Mr Haye
it being all but my sarvis to my Uncle & love to youer good selfe & wife. I
wrest in haste

Youer Lo Cousin
John Mackley

[Youler bro: Nat: is very well & Disiers to be Remembered to you all"	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	81				1681	RICHARD GOODENOUGH	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	PATRON	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""RICHARD GOODENOUGH"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_130	ESRO FRE 5028	[130] Ann Wightman to Elizabeth Jeake, 29 October 1681. Original letter.	152	Anne Wightman	Loveing Cosen			October the 29 1681			"Loveing Cosen

Yours I received and Acoredg to yours desire I have borth your things all but
the oranges the ships be not come in it but as sone as they come I will send
sum yours stocings will not take noe couller but a bad grrene if I should
advise you I would have them dide the same couller for that is as much woud
as any if you plese to send me word wether your mind be soe to I will take care
to get them done I have sent the other thing this weke wich I hope you will
sone the box of sweat meat cost Ss and three pound of wafer the one
pound is called chacolet wafer which lie upper most in the box and cost 2s6d
-
and the to pound cost 3s the [words illegible] ar in the box with the wafer that
cost 3s and the box 6d. You writ for clote line but I se noe string but I have
sent one dosen yards wich is Is 6d if it be big enouff if not, when you have
ocaison to send to London send it Againe and Aprise that is fit and I will send
it I write soe with mine and my husband service to you my unkle & your
mother and love to you and husband I remaine your loveing coson to sarye
Anne Wightman
October the 29 1681
Cost of the things sent 15s 6d

These for Mrs Elizabeth Jeake in Rye Sussex"	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	255		These for Mrs Elizabeth Jeake in Rye Sussex		1681	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_131	ESRO FRE 5030	[131] Michel Savary to Samuel Jeake junior, 8 ? 1681. Original letter.	153	Mich Savary	Mr Jeake	"Sir Your humble Servant
My service to your good father. They are all fisher men."	"London the 8"" [?]ber 1681"			"""Note of the costs added in Samuel junior's hand."	"London the 8"" [?]ber 1681

Mr Jeake
Sir yours of the 28'"" Xber last past have receved for the which I give you
thanks although not conserned yet if can serve you in the like please to freely
command.
The present is to Crave your friendship againe in favour of sume poore French
protestant which are Latly arrived from about Rochel by the persecution
which is to teadious to Rehearse the which his Majestie hath been pleased
graciously to Receive into this kingdome, & since there arrivall granted them
letters of Denisization, soe that now wee are considering where to Recommend
them for setlements & Indeed have diverse times thought upon your towne for
the Publicke good, Being a thing which I have this day moved & will bee farther
considered one in the meane time you will be pleased to communicate it
to sume persons which you thinke fitte, & to consider if bee not for the good
of the towne, & to send me your answer & oppinion, & will abboundantly
oblige

Sir Your humble Servant

Mich Savary

My service to your good father. They are all fisher men.

For Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex"	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	200		For Mr Samuel Jeake Junior Marchant in Rye Sussex		1681	ANN WIGHTMAN	ELIZABETH JEAKE	FEMALE	FEMALE	UNK	UNK	1667	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""ANN WIGHTMAN"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_132	ESRO FRE 5044	[132] James Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 11 March 1681/2. Original letter.	154	James Wightman	Loving Cosin	From your loving Cosin	"London March 11"" 1681/2"				"London March 11"" 1681/2

Loving Cosin
Yours I receved and have according to your desire sent the shoose and the
quire of bonds allsoe; and the bill you wrote for which you will find in one of
the shoose and theer is in the other my uncls watch which I would desire you
to give him with mine and my wifes sarvis. I had sent the bill if I had thought
of it when I had opportunety to send it, but was loath to put you to the charg
of 4d in sending it by letter; my wife was brought to bead with a Girle this day
three weeks, a little after two in the afternoon and is very well blessed by the
lord considering her condition but the child hath been very weake thought att
present we have some hopse of its Recovery through infinet mercy, this with
mine and my wifes respects to your selfe and wife is all att present

From your loving Cosin

James Wightman

For Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	177		For Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1681	MICHEL SAVARY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""MICHEL SAVARY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_133	ESRO FRE 5045	[133] Richard Goodenough to Samuel Jeake junior, 21 March 1681/2. Originalletter.	154	Richard Goodenough	Sr	Your humble servant					"Sr

I received your letter, I beg you to present my service to Mrs Hartshorne, as
to her son I know nothing of his going into the Country, but about a Weeke
before for severall notorious faults I had discharged him my service, & desired
him to acquaint his relations there with And as to what money should be
returned I told him it should be referred to two indifferent persons, I perceive
he is not ashamed to say or write anything to palliate his owne offences I am
Sr

Your humble servant

Richard Goodenough"	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	95				1682	JAMES WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_134	ESRO FRE 5046	[134] Samuel Jeake junior to Richard Goodenough, 23 March 1681/2. Copy letter.	155	S.J.	Sr	Sr Your humble Servant	Rye Mar 23 1681/2				"Rye Mar 23 1681/2

Sr

I have yours of the 21 Instant & have aceordingly acquainted my Mother with

what you write, and perceiving your unwillingness to keep her [words struck
out] son (being as you intimate guilty of such notorious faults though none
particularised) it is our desire that you write us word in answer hereto what
summe you will returne, which if you propose with Justice & Equity we may
adjust the business within our selves without the trouble of Reference. He
hath not been long with you & now yor is put him as much to seek of a place
& imployment as when he [words struck out] went at first & I suppose you
have made some profit of the money you had with him in the time, he hath
had nothing but victualls. I must needs say you had done well to have
acquainted his Mother with your putting him away; [words struck out] the
articles being made with her not him yet This is certainly a very abrupt conclusion.
I have acquainted informed my Br of what you say that you gave him
no leave who still affirmes that he asked you leave to come down & see his
mother which you granted him at your office door. & that you ordred him to
receive 5s of your Brother which he did im I request the answer assoon as
possible to

Sr Your humble Servant

S.J.
To Mr Rich: Goodenough"	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	246	To Mr Rich: Goodenough			1682	RICHARD GOODENOUGH	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	PATRON	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""RICHARD GOODENOUGH"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_135	ESRO FRE 5055	[135] John Osmonton to Samuel Jeake junior, 22 June 1682. Original letter.	155		Deare	"For the Deare & much valued Mr Samuel Jeake Junior with unfained love &
all true Respects"	Bury Street June 22 1682				"Bury Street June 22 1682
Deare
Friends what ever Insurrections may in the Rectoral Justiss of God befall the
world & the land of our nativity For the unrepented persisted in abominations
of all most all sorts of mankind let us laber night & day by unfained
faith Evangelicall & harty repentance sinceer obedence to all Gods will &
plesure bee Resigning our selves & all that is in our power as a whol burnt
sacrifice to the pleasure of our God that wee may Receive all in him to
unspeakable advantage that it may bee with us as with Noah when the waters
of the flood are abated, Gen 8 20:21 verses And Noah builded an alter unto
the lord & took of every cleane Beast & of every cleane fowle & offered burnt
offerings upon the Alter & the lord smelled a sweet savor & the lord said in his
heart I will not again curse the wortd ground any more for mans sake For the
imaginations of mans heart is evill from his youth neither will I again smite
any more every thinck living as I have done. O that by vertue of that well
ordered Covenant made to David & his spirituall seed established in all things
& sure wee may by the leading by the hand of soveraine grace bee made meet
to receiv of these priviledges made to Noah & may bee found in the Caleb
spirit following god full living down the ungodlyness & murmerings of this
Generation that cannot bear our words beleeving that through all the disorders
and confutions in the world & wofull contempt & blaspheming of the
spirit of god that nevertheless his enimies shadow is departed from them &
that god is for us against them & therfore bids us not fear them tiss veryly a
good land & good for us & the enimies of the lord shall bee but food for our
faith therfore fear them not. For the meek shall inherit the earth Math 5:5* &
ther shall bee aboundance of peace for as long as the sun & moon endure the
lord fill us with purity of spirit, prudence, sagasity & a mortified spirit to this
present evill world being prepared to bear his Cross with inuincable patience
& holy Courage that we may bee meet to weare his glorious & eternal] thrown
& inherit all things: prays your truly affectionate Brother & truly humble
servant in our deare Lord Jesus John Osmonton

I pray deare sir by the First convenient oppertunity to let mee know how it
is with your deare Father & the despised Interest of our Dear Lord Jesus in

Rye.

For the Deare & much valued Mr Samuel Jeake Junior with unfained love &
all true Respects"	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	467				1681	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	RICHARD GOODENOUGH	MALE	MALE	1652	1640-1680	UNK	UNK	PATRON	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""RICHARD GOODENOUGH"""
j_136	ESRO FRE 5056	[136] Nathaniel Hartshorne to Elizabeth Jeake, 8 July 1682. Original letter.	156	Nath: Hartshorne	Deare Sister	Your truly Lo: Brother	London July 8 — 82			Matthew 5: 5, 'Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth'.	"Deare Sister
I Received yours dated the 9"" which is to morrow and will fullfill your request

next returne of the Carrier I hope you are all in good health, since you indicated
nothing to the Contrary I know not whether your letter was not brought
me in its due tyme for I had it not till to day which is the 8"" of this Instant so
with my service to my Cosin J'ay I saw her husband yesterday as well Mr
Tournay is this day come for Rye who I presume will see you before these he
hath a letter for my Mother from me. Pray my Duty to my Mother, uncle Bro:
and so concluding with my hearty requests to your selfe I am in hast

Your truly Lo: Brother

Nath: Hartshorne
London July 8 - 82

These to Mrs Elizabeth Jeake att her house in Rye in Sussex"	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	151		These to Mrs Elizabeth Jeake att her house in Rye in Sussex		1682	JOHN OSMONTON	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	FRIEND	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN OSMONTON"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_137	ESRO FRE 4873°	[137] Elizabeth Mackley to Elizabeth Jeake, 18 August. Original letter.	157	Elizabeth Mackley	Loving Cousin	Your Lo Cosin to serve		August the 18		"""The date on this letter does not include the year but is placed here because it is addressed to
Elizabeth Jeake, married in 1681, and refers to Elizabeth Mackley being presented, presumably
for nonattendance
at church, thus most likely to be during the early 1680s. The letter also refers
to Elizabeth Jeake's great belly, a term that was not necessarily confined to the latter stages of
pregnancy. Elizabeth would have been around 5 and half months pregnant with her first child in
August 1682. For examples of the use of the term 'great belly' see Laura Gowing, Common
Bodies: Women, Touch and Power in SeventeenthCentury
England (New Haven, 2003), 148."	"Loving Cousin

Imust eckowledge my self much to blame to neglect writing to you it hath not
been for of love but I have been presented I hope it will come in good time to
you I am Glad to hare that you doe goe forward with your grett belly. My

service to my honnored uncle with your mother & respects to your good self
&cosin. At present I remain

Your Lo Cosin to serve

Elizabeth Mackley
August the 18

How to make tansed

Tak a qart of the thickest carem

& the yelkes of 30 egges

1 pound & halef of fine suger

3 quartese of nabell [word illegible]
1 nutt mang & rosewatter

& the juse of spinegs

& tanse erbers"	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	123			"How to make tansed
Tak a qart of the thickest carem
& the yelkes of 30 egges
1 pound & halef of fine suger
3 quartese of nabell [word illegible]
1 nutt mang & rosewatter
& the juse of spinegs
& tanse erbers"	1682	NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1644	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	23	TRUE	"""NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_138	ESRO FRE 5065	[138] Nathaniel Hartshorne to Samuel Jeake junior, 26 August 1682. Original letter.	158	Nath: Hartshorne	Lo: Bro:	Your Lo: Brother	London August 26° — 82				"Lo: Bro:
I have yours of the 24° and am sorry to heare my Uncle doth not mend any
faster but hope it he may suddainly you would do me a particular favour if
you could get me some dabbs but I feare the season is almost past but hope
you may get some I will pay and also be thankfull for your trouble. My Master
never asked any thing of security of me but if he continues next yeare J must.
I must needs say the whole family are very sivill to me I have behaved my self
so as to gaine theire good opinion. I now perceive by what my Mrs hath told
me that my fellow Clerke was the occasion of my Masters parting with me
now he hath gott our 2 maids with child as it is reported and another maid
and Mrs Daughter saw it is turned out of doors and so I came into the office
I will tell Tho: Clarke of your present we have another blazing starr"" reported
to be seen but I have not seene it yet it being bad weather: So with my respects
to all I am in hast

Your Lo: Brother

Nath: Hartshorne
London August 26° - 82

These to Mr Samuel Jeake Junior att Rye in Sussex"	Nathaniel in London, 1681—1682	ENGLISH	220		These to Mr Samuel Jeake Junior att Rye in Sussex		1682	ELIZABETH MACKLEY	ELIZABETH JEAKE	FEMALE	FEMALE	UNK	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""ELIZABETH MACKLEY"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_139	ESRO FRE 5071	[139] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 7 November 1682. Original letter.	158	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	"Youer Lo Cousin
Nat hath not bein att my howes never sences you was att London but I coled
on him Thinkin to have had the 25s he owes me."	"Southwark November the 7"" 1682"			* Possibly Halley's Comet.	"Southwark November the 7"" 1682

Lo Cousin

I had writen to you Last post but going to hoborn I Defered it Till now
because I Coled att Nat Masters thinkin to have seen him but did not I understand
he hath not beine att his masters this 10 Days so they could not Tell me
whear he was he hath not beene Sicke as they Tell me. I have Received the bill
of £120 of Mr Hays & I have payd to Mr Markewicke £140 which you Drewe.
I have sent to you I Dozen of plates thay came to 3s More than the [word
illegible] you sente it being all but my Kind love to your good selfe & wife with
my sarvis to my uncle & to your mother. I wres
Youer Lo Cousin
John Mackley

Nat hath not bein att my howes never sences you was att London but I coled
on him Thinkin to have had the 25s he owes me.

To Mr Sa: Jeake Junior, Mearchant in Rye Sussex"	Nathaniel in debt, 1682	ENGLISH	174		To Mr Sa: Jeake Junior, Mearchant in Rye Sussex		1682	NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_140	ESRO FRE 5072	[140] James Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 8 November 1682. Original letter.	159	James Wightman	Loving Cosin	"My wife desires you would lett her know in your next how the things please
you."	"London November 8"" 1682"				"London November 8"" 1682
Loving Cosin
Yours I received with the bill and have alsoe received the mony I have this day
enquired after my cosin Nathaniel but canot heare of him any where therfore
canot deliver the letter you sent for him I feare he keeps very bad company he
hath sent letters to Mr Grace for monyes but I suppose he hath sent him none,
the last he sent was by a porter wherein he tell him that he was in prison and
ready to starve but hath not lett him know where it is but one examination of
the porter he tould him it was att a house on Saffron Hill but att the place
where he tould him he is not, soe we canot tell whether ther be any truth in
what he write, I have sent by Slowman the Carrier a basket for my brother
Freebody, directed to be left with you which I would desire you to send to him
by a messenger On purpose as soone as it comes to your hands and what the
carrier will have for the carage be pleased to pay and if my Bro: Freebody doe
not pay you again I will, this with mine and my wifes respects to you and my
cosen with our sarvis to my uncle and your mother is all att present from
your loving cosin
James Wightman

My wife desires you would lett her know in your next how the things please
you."	Nathaniel in debt, 1682	ENGLISH	251				1682	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_141	ESRO FRE 5073	[141] John Jaye® to Samuel Jeake junior, 14 November 1682. Original letter.	160	Jn° Jaye	Cozen Jeak	"your ingaged friend and kinsman
Mr Hartshorne is gone from his master and hath binn so some time."	"London November 14"" 1682"			"'John Jaye, an apothecary, was the husband of Samuel junior's cousin Mary, daughter of Anne
Jeake and William Key.
*Hockleyin
-theHole
was a notorious area of London. It was the location of bulland
bearbaiting
and frequented by thieves and highwaymen. Walter Thornbury, 'Hockleyin
-theHole
',
in Old and New London: Volume 2 (London, 1878), pp. 3069.
British History Online http:/hwww.
britishhistory.
ac.uk/oldnew
-london/vol2/pp306309
"	"London November 14"" 1682

Cozen Jeak
Sir The occasion of these lines is to acquaint you that last Lords day in the

evening, one Thomas Clerke a Pipemaker in Clerkenwell, came to my house,
and told me that the Monday before Mr Nathaniel Hartshorne was under the
constables hands in a place called Hockley in hole"" for taking from one Mr
Joseph Stead of Staples Inn two guineas for which he was going to be carried
to prison, but procured so much favour as to send for some friend, upon
which he sent for this Clerk, who he persuaded to be bound in a bond with
him to pay forty three shillings upon demand to the said Stead and told him
his uncle Jeake and Holman were in town and the next day it should be paid
and did alsoe give him a note under his hand seal to bear him harmeless,
which note he showed to me. But this poor man hath never seen him since,
and the person hath been to demand the money of him, and the Bayleys lye
in wait to take him, that he is faine to keep within doors and dares not stirr
out for fear of being sent to prison. I would have had him write down to his
Mother but he was very earnest with me to write because he said he feared
that his [word struck out] writing would not be understood, which seeing the
man in so much distress I promised him to write to you, that you might
acquaint Coz Hartshorne with it and if it is thought convenient may order
that the money [words struck out] may be paid for I believe if he were in
prison he is not able to procure tenn shillings for his reliefe, and now is not in
a capacity to follow his own concernes, I went this morning to inquire for this
Stead att Staples inn but he went out of town yesterday that I could give you
no better account than what I had from Clerk who made such a sad complaint
to me that I much commiserated the man's condition and thought my
self in confidence bound to signify to you what I have that the poor man may
be in a capacity to follow his imploy and therefore hope you will resolve this
trouble. My wife presents her service to my uncle, Coz Hartshorne, your selfe
and Cozon your wife, the like I do myself and rest
your ingaged friend and kinsman
Jn° Jaye

Mr Hartshorne is gone from his master and hath binn so some time."	Nathaniel in debt, 1682	ENGLISH	438				1682	JAMES WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_142	ESRO FRE 5293	[142] John Medley to Barbara Hartshorne, 18 November 1682. Original letter.	161	Jn° Medley	Madam	"Madam
Your Most obliged servant
ray give mee an answer next post"	street November 18° 82				"London att the Angell
Corner shop of fenchurch
street November 18° 82
Madam
Since your departure from Mr Jayes, (very unwilling I am to occasion this
trouble of advice) your sonn Mr Nath: Hartshorne have gradually come into
my Debt 15 or 20 pounds, for goods hee tooke up at our shop, which I thought
necessary to acquaint you with by reason hee promised mee payment & have
disappointed mee, your assistance in this business I implore, [words lost] I
would not take any vigorous means to secure my debt although it lay in my
power soe to doe, by reasons of t[he] small acquaintance I had of you, I shall
ever acknowledge my selfe
Madam
Your Most obliged servant
Jn° Medley

ray give mee an answer next post"	Nathaniel in debt, 1682	ENGLISH	129				1682	JOHN JAYE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN JAYE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_143	ESRO FRE 5294	[143] John Medley to Barbara Hartshorne, 23 November 1682. Original letter.	161	Jn° Medley	Madam	Your obliged servant		November 23 82			"Mr Nath: Hartshorne
Bought of Thomas Jenney and John Medley 82
Nov 1 9 yds of Venetian Tabby at 9s 0d £4: 01: 00
10 yds of Chery Satting at 9s 0d £4: 10: 00
7 yds % of white Satting florance £4: 06: 03
8 yds of blew stripe at 7:0 £2: 16:0

Madam

Yours came safe to hand this day, the particulars mentioned above which is [word
lost] to your order, your son I have not seen sin{ce] I sold him the last, I went to
meet with him in the Temple, but could not finde him, I was informed hee was
gone downe to you, into the Countrey, this is all that is need full from Madam
Your obliged servant

Jn° Medley
November 23 82"	Nathaniel in debt, 1682	ENGLISH	128				1682	JOHN MEDLEY	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	MALE	FEMALE	UNK	UNK	UNK	1600-1640	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	UNK		UNK	"""JOHN MEDLEY"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_144	ESRO FRE 5076	[144] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 1 December 1682. Original letter.	162	Samuel Jeake	Loving son	Your very loving father		Dec 1 1682			"Loving son
Yours of the 28"" past received, and am glad to heare of your health with your
wife & mother, which I pray God continue to you all, I am through mercy in
health & our relations here, except old Mrs Mackley who is not well. Ere this
comes to you I hope your brother N. H will be safe with you with the Mare
rode up hither upon & the Boots per Mr Miller, by whom I did not write
sending him away on the sudden. I could not heare of him till Monday after
my coming to Towne & then he sends a letter to Mr Grace to borrow £4 of
him & acquainted him that he was in prison at Westminster Mr Grace brings
the Letter with the porter that brought it to Cosin Wightman, who next
morning tooke on him the trouble to go to Westminster & found out your
brother in Custody where the Debt & charges was £3 13s and paid it &
released him, the Letter amd to Mr Grace & the discharge my Cosen Mr
Wightman tooke for the Debt for which my Cosin was laid in I intend to send
you by Mr Miller when he returns. I feare things will go bad here as well as in
the countrey with those that feare the Lord the Lord fit you with double
portions of his spirit and beare you up against all discouragement. I am more
concerned in my thoughts for you than my self though I have left all in your
hands. My love to all friends in great hast I remain

Your very loving father

Samuel Jeake

Dec 1 1682"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	282				1682	JOHN MEDLEY	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	MALE	FEMALE	UNK	UNK	UNK	1600-1640	"BUSINESS; CORRESPONDENT"	UNK	UNK	UNK	UNK		UNK	"""JOHN MEDLEY"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_145	ESRO FRE 5081	[145] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, undated. Original letter.	162	Sa: Jeake	Loving son	Your affectionate Father				"Samuel senior left Rye in November 1683 and remained in London until mid1687.
Hunter and
Gregory, Astrological Diary, 161."	"Loving son

I sent by the carrier a few lines to you, as well to acquaint you of my health
as to let you know that I had as soone as I could sent away my cosin N. H.
your brother, and what occurred in procuring his liberty. The Receipt my
Cosin Wightman took for the Debt he paid for him for which he was in
Custody I herewith send you and the other charges that he paid made up in
all £3 13s besides 4d or 3 4d I well remember not which he paid for comming
back by water I send you also the letter my Cosin in his custody sent to Mr
Grace which may the better satisfie being his owne hand, since his going I
have heard nothing but that he owes Mr Firman 20s and 23s for a hat he
bought of John Allin I hope he got well to Rye and the mare I rode out upon
came Well also. I have taken up of Mr Miller Ten pounds & drawn a bill on
you which pray honour with the payment. I have paid Mr John Greenwood
the £4 7s I had in my hands of his mothers so as I owe nothing there. I desire
you to keepe an Accompt of what you pay & disburse for me, I would have
you call upon Mr Welsh for the money due from him to Cosin Jaye but when
you have it return it to me. I have spoken to Cosin Freebody who is here to
pay in the money he owes me to you & I suppose he will shortly because I
understand he hath sold his land. Beware of negotiating any Bills of Mr
Betteford of Calais Father or son because Mr Miller's Bill is forced to be
protested. If any thing you desire satisfaction in or should occur amongst you
extraordinary write to me you may direct your letter to Cosin Mackley. I
desire you would by the Carrier send me up a couple of Shirts & my morning
coat & order them to be left there. The Lord bless & keepe you in his feare &
give you wisdome & innocency. Christ advises his owne disciples to. Remember
me to our Relations in Speciall & the Christian friends in generall with you
whose condition I shall not cease to spread before the Lord for though absent
in body, I am present in spirit with you. For news I refer you to Mr Miller. I
abide

Your affectionate Father

Sa: Jeake

At the end of [word illegible] in the superscription of your Letters to Cosin
Mackely. Let it be [word illegible] & then he may know they be for me.

Send my Combe that I left in the broadest box under the cupboard in the
studdy.

To his Lov son Mr Sa: Jeake in Rye, These"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	484		To his Lov son Mr Sa: Jeake in Rye, These	"At the end of [word illegible] in the superscription of your Letters to Cosin
Mackely. Let it be [word illegible] & then he may know they be for me.
Send my Combe that I left in the broadest box under the cupboard in the
studdy."	1682	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_146	ESRO FRE 5083	[146] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 6 January 1682/3. Original letter.	163	Sa: Jeake	Lov: Son	Your very lo father		January 6 1682/3		"""The first earl of Shaftesbury (162183)
was one of the leading figures in the Exclusion Crisis
the end of 1682. Tim Harris, 'Cooper, Anthony Ashley, first earl of Shaftesbury (16211683)
,
ODNB."	"January 6 1682/3
Lov: Son
Yours of the 1"" instant gives me the good news [of] the health of your self &
wife which I am glad of & pray for the continuance thereof. When Cosin
Freebdy payes you returne me the money & when you receive that due from
Mr Welsh send me an Accompt of what you have received & paid for me since
I left you. As to the business of Wid: Hood let the moveables be settled by
deed of gift in which she may give grant & confirme them to him absolutly,
for the considerations as well of natural love & affection as for & in consideration
that he his executors admin[istrators] or assignes shall maintaine her
with meet & sufficient meate, drinke & all things necessary during her natural
life & range her to be decently buried after her decease. In this writing let
there be a covenant on his part to find, allow & provide for her during her
natural life meet competent & sufficient meat drink &c. And if she have any
debts let there be a convenant or letter of Attorney in the writing to enable
him to sue for the same in the name of her, her executors or adminfistrators]
to his own use. This writing were best be made by indenture between her and
him. It may be done in paper & the moveables may be mentioned by schedule
or in the body of the writing. And let there be a bond for him to her in double
the value of the goods to performe the covenant on his part as usually. As to
the House Let it be by indenture in parchment wherein she may covenant to
him to stand seized of the mesuag &c. to the use of her for her life, or to his
use during both their lives & after her decease if he shall survive to the use of
him, his heires & assignes for ever to the use of him, his heires & assignes for
ever provided he shall pay his brother Jn° Hood £10 on such a day as his
apprenticeship shall come out upon (which you may informe your selfe of) if
he shall so long live & the said M. Hood shall be then dead, or within so many
moneths after the decease of the said M Hood if she shall live after the end
of his apprenticeship. And in default of payment put in a clause whereby she
may grant her son Jn Hood power to enter & distreine as in Leases. But if she
shall survive her son Coskar then to the use of her for her life or her & her
heires & assignes for ever as she shall think best. Let this Indenture be made
between her of the one part & her sons Coskar & Hood of the other part
because else she cannot give him power to distrein for the £10 & all signed &
seale both parts of the Indenture though it matters not whether Jn° Hood
seale if he be made party thereof. The consideration in this Indenture may be
for natural love & affection & for settling the Inheritance of the mesuage &c,
Here is little news, It yet remaines a cloudy & dark day The Lord be your light
& salvation & the refuge & strength of you & other his people. Some take that
Shaftsbury is gone from Holland to Dantzick as thinking himself not safe
there,"" others question the truth thereof & say the interest of Orange there is
not so prevalent as formerly & that the Dutch Ambassador here hath lately
given in a memorial signifying that the states are resolved to stand by their
treaty with the emperor & K. of Spaine with some other things not pleasing
at Court. France it is said hath ordered his seaman to be aboard his ships the
beginning of this moneth which hath quickened the Dutch in their naval
preparations. The poling for Common Counsellmen is not yet over in some of
the wards. Little Mary Mackley is sick of the measells she was took ill Gh last
8° was indifferent, but 2% worse. 9° they began to appeare. Old Mrs
Mackley is not yet recovered. The rest of our kindred here are well & remember
to you & your wife to whom with your mother, brother & Christian
friends my hearty respects & affections. When you have leisure write me up
the places of the planets in Long. & Lat. for the 10"" & 11"" daies of July 1647.
Also their places for the 30"" & 31th of January 1650/51. Likewise for the last
of August & first of September 1664. And for the 24"" & 25"" daies of March
1665 & 1666. And for the 12"" & 13 daies of December 1667. And for the
22th & 23th of August 1669. Also the years daies & Hours answering to 1.
Degree & the daies & hours to .1. minute by Naibods Table in Lillies
Introduction. And the Long. & Lat of London & Ispwich by the Table in
Lillie where I thinke Ipswich is that so I may get the difference of Meridians.
I could not conveniently write you by the Carrier which made me send this
{words lost] post. In hast I am

Your very lo father

Sa: Jeake

This For Mr Sam Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	912		This For Mr Sam Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex			SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE			29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_147	ESRO FRE 5086	[147] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 20 January 1682/3. Original lette:	165	John Mackley	Respected Cousin	Youer Lo Cousin	"Southwark Jan the 20"" 1682/3"			"""Tuesday.
 Wednesday.
""Thursday,
Friday.
""A reference to Valentin Naibod in William Lilly's Christian Astrology, which was to be found
in the Jeake library. Hunter er al., Radical's Books, 1423.
"	"Southwark Jan the 20"" 1682/3
Respected Cousin
Youers of the 16"" Instant I have Received and tharby understand you be
willing to have youer Talow sould provided I could sell so as thar might be no
Loss which I canot Due all theas marketes but to some Loss and when thay
will be better I knowe not by Reason of Trobeles that Due a Risse which
makes people have no mind att all to Trade but that Loss I will save you and
Take it my selfe if you be willing I will make good all youer money. So if you
please you may Drawe a bill For £40 one me as sune as you met with a opertunety
but as for the Rest you must alowe me some Time for it will be a Grate
while before I shall Despenses with it because Traide Holes of nowe sumer
comes one but if I have any opertunity to sell any to save my selfe I shall be
willing to sell some for I ame now Indited for 1 month for not going to Church
so I have 29 sessions before thay can medell with mee. My wife aske my uncle
howe he did and he said his could was as it was he was att ouer howse to Day
it being all att present but my kind love to youer selfe and wife & mother. I

wrest
Youer Lo Cousin

John Mackley

To Mr Sam Jeake Junior Merchant in Rye Sussex"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	251		To Mr Sam Jeake Junior Merchant in Rye Sussex		1683	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_148	ESRO FRE 5141	[148] Samuel Jeake senior to Elizabeth Jeake, 27 January 1682/3. Original letter.	166	Samuel Jeake	Deare Daughter,	Your truly loving father		"January 27"" 1682/3"			"Deare Daughter,
I am glad though you have lost your little one for which you endured so much
paine; that you are through mercy pretty well recovered, and hope the remaining
weakness upon you will in time be removed. The Lord sanctifie his dispensations
to you & poure out his grace & blessings on you. My cold was
inconsiderable through the goodness of God I am indifferent in health, some
nights a remnant of my former paine continues with me. I am sorry to heare
William Jeffrey is so ill I heartily wish his recovery. Yesterday cosins Mackley
& Jaye eate your Goose & all send you their thanks with mine for it. It was
exceeding good. It pleaseth me well to see you have mended your hand in
writing, my earnest desires are for your happiness here & hereafter and ever
shall remain, with my respects to your mother.
Your truly loving father
Samuel Jeake
January 27"" 1682/3"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	159				1683	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1623	1600-1640	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	44	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_149	ESRO FRE 5090	[149] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 15 February 1682/3. Original letter.	166	Sa Jeake		"Your truly lo father
Deliver the inclosed."		"Febr15"" 1682/3"		"Saturday.
""Tuesday."	"Dear Son, This morning I received yours of the 12 currant by Cosin
Wightman That the news of my not being well might not discompose you I
took the opportunity of writing you an Answer to yours of the 10"" instant
the next post for I understand my Cosin Mackley had wrot you some thing
thereof & therein. I answered your Queries and gave you an accompt of my
paine that then continued from f° to O since which through mercy my
paines are abated though some Remnants remain, what the issue of these
often visits from heaven may produce at last you may see & prepare to see me
no more, Though your desires & filial affections (of which I never doubted)
should be denied they shall have paternal reciprocations. Yet I know nothing
but if God spare me life & the apsects from above be more propitious I may
see Rye. If in my absence I shall find my life in jeopardy I shall be willing you
have timely notice that I may set mine eyes upon you before I dye & you may
put your hands upon mine when dying. God allmighty bless you, your wife &
issue he shall give you and give me your society in heaven though I should
have no more of it on earth, which would be as acceptable to me as you, And
whether our Iniquities as well as the Iniquities of the times have not been
conjunct to the accomplishment of this present dispensation may be considered
by us distinctly or whether I only have eaten the soure grapes though
your teeth are set on edge. But what ever the cause on earth hath been I am
sure the cure is in heaven. I am willing to look thither & should I look any
where else can see nothing from men, means, policy, power, care contrivance
or such like that may render [word illegible] of help to the distresses, disruptions
distractions, fears, snares trials &c of the sons & daughters of Zion. I
am sometimes ready to fear in stead of my coming to Rye you will be forced
from thence, And bless God you have yet been able to bear up against the
storm & desire if it be his will you may dwell quietly under your own vine. I
am not without hopes that in measure God will meet this storm now it is shot
forth & debate with it & stay his rough wind. But if otherwise let all go rather
than Christ and a good conscience. Feare not them that can kill the body but

[word lost] in that can kill & cast both body & soule into hell. My true love to
you my daughter your mother and all friends, I remain

Your truly lo father
Sa Jeake
Febr15"" 1682/3
Deliver the inclosed.

To Mr Sa Jeake Junior in Rye"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	485		To Mr Sa Jeake Junior in Rye		1683	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_150	ESRO FRE 5095	[150] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 10 March 1682/3. Original letter.	168	Sa Jeake	Deare Son	Your truly lo father		Mar 10 1682/3		"The Duke of Monmouth. Following the failure of the Rye House plot, Charles II had a shortlived
reconciliation with the Duke of Monmouth in the autumn of 1683. Tim Harris, 'Scott
[Crofts], James, duke of Monmouth and first duke of Buccleuch (16491685)
, ODNB.
 Possibly the second Earl of Clarendon, a supporter of Charles II during the Exclusion Crisis
and known to have an interest in Irish affairs. He was appointed lord Lieutenant of Ireland in
1685. W. A. Speck, 'Hyde, Henry, second earl of Clarendon (16381709)
, ODNB.
James, Duke of York had been High Commissioner in Scotland from October 1679 to March
1682. W. A. Speck, 'James II and VII (16331701)
, ODNB.
""Robert Paston, first Earl of Yarmouth, was Lord Lieutenant of Norfolk and an antiExclusionist.
He died on 8 March 1683. John Miller, 'Paston, Robert, first earl of Yarmouth
(16311683)
', ODNB."	"Deare Son
By yours of the 5"" instant I understand you have received the money due

from widow Hounsell as well to Cosin Jaye as my self. I have paid Cosin Jaye

and cleared him off as to his wives portion & that mortgage also but have

taken up no money of Cosin Mackley for by reason my sister Dighton hath

paid me what she owes me I have money spare yet. I thank you for your invitation
to Rye but were I weary of the City I cannot yet take the Journey being

not wholly freed of my paines though by the good hand of God upon me

much abated. I should be glad to see you but would not you should neglect

your business & take such a journey & charge on you only to give mea short
visit. I am glad to heare your mother is on recovery that your self & wife are
well. I hear this week by a Gentleman as if they were intended to be a little
milder with the dissenters & that the Lord Keeper had order to stop the
Capias writs against Excommunication & the Judges in the Circuits to be
favourable to dissenters & would they have petitioned they had been indulged
but some think as if a design were if any had petitioned to compound with
them for a yearly sume, for money is precious at court sometimes, yet they
continue to stop the people from going in at their Meeting houses & some
that get in before the Officers come turned out, though some of the Officers
arre so friendly as to let them know when they will come that they may be
gone before & few carried to prison. The Court is gone to Newmarket, some
say the D of Mon is coming in favour again & that Hyde"" is going to Ireland
& Y to Scotland again,"" how true I know not. Yesterday I heard the Earle of
Yarmouth is dead."" The French were buzzing into the Europeans the prize to
be won at a Horsrace at which time they had a design to surprise the Charleroy
& some other Towns whose Governors no had corrupted but was discovered
& prevented. Cosins remember to you And with my kind love to your mother
self & wife & the rest of my friends I remain
Your truly lo father

Sa Jeake
Mar 10 1682/3

To Mr Sa Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	415		To Mr Sa Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1683	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_151	ESRO FRE 5096	[151] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 17 March 1682/3. Original letter.	169	Sa: Jeake	Lov: Son	Your lo: father		"March 17"" 1682/3"			"Lov: Son
Yours of the 12"" instant received and thereby understand you & your
Relations with you are in health which I am glad of and desire God to continue
to you and others that feare him in your place. I suppose by this Mr
Markwick is returned to Rye who was so kind as to see me here several times
so I need not write you touching my condition that I am not so bad as you
may imagine nor yet so well as to be free from paine. I desire to waite on God
who hath often ransomed my life from destruction & crowned me with his his
loving kindness and tender mercies. As to the house though I have sometime
had thoughts never to sell it because if you should do otherwise then well and
I should ever return to Rye I should like no other house for an habitation
there but that yet taking the number of my daies to be short & not knowing
whether God will dispose of my return or no I leave you to do therein as you
please & if you cannot get above £50 to take that. My kind love to my friends
in generall with the respects of my Cosins here I remain

Your lo: father

Sa: Jeake
March 17"" 1682/3

To Mr Sa Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	230		To Mr Sa Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1683	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_152	ESRO FRE 5097	[152] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 12 April 1683. Original letter.	169	Sa: Jeake	My Deare son	Your very lo father		"[April 1]2""° 1683"		 The Five Mile Act of 1665 was also referred to as the Oxford Act.	"My Deare son

This day I received yours of the 9"" instant at which your mother send hers
[word lost] both rejoyce to heare of your health with your wife. Though she is
troubled because her son Nath: comes not at her. As to the outlaw which you
mention Mr Knight informed Mr Shinner of would come out against me next
terme, I think it will be to no purpose to throw away 30s to keep it of fora .12.
moneth seeing if that on the Oxford Act"" be stopt, it will be no stop to the
Capias upon the Excommunication but I may as well be taken upon that &
sent to prison as upon the other, so I yet am resolved to rest on providence &
let the Lord do with me as seemeth good in his sight. This no little refreshment
to me and a great mercy to you to heare you are yet spared from prosecution,
which if you should I doubt you must be forced to come away. As long
as you are not prosecuted the Books may remain as they are But if there be
any thing else that was mine which you can spare you may sell & put into
money. The Great Table & Stools you may sell if you can get 40s though it be
worth more. Or any thing else you have a mind to sell. The parcell of Books
you mention that stood upon the shelf under the great map neere the window
if you send me a catalogue I may see what I can get for them. I have informed
Cosin Mackley what you write concerning him, Cosins & kindred here are
well & remember to you. Remember my kind love to all my friends with you
as if named. On the 5"" instant I received a Letter from Mr Markwick date
Apr .2. wherein he informs me that by the vigillancy of the Adversary he
thinks you will not be able to gaine any opportunity to meet with more then
5. above the family. And would have my thoughts on that. Touching which the
Lord direct you for I cannot. But if you cannot meet otherwise to enjoy any
season of joyning your forces to send up your petitions to heaven without
distraction you were better meet with that number then not att all. If the Lord
deprive or suffer the Adversaries rather to deprive you of your solemne
Assemblies, the sin will be the enemies, the suffering yours. I do not think the
loss or deprivation of some ordinances will separate God & his people, seeing
he was with the congregation in the wilderness when they wanted circumcision
& the Passover & at first had no settled priesthood or ministry among
them. If you did take some weeke day to set apart & seek God in the case and
make it a Particualr request [words struck out] whether to meet with 5. or
more as you have done & run the risque of it. [two lines struck out] The God
of Jacob be your refuge, & put underneath you his everlasting Arms, make
your enemies that promise to themselves great things Liars & make you to
tread on their high places. If there by any worth or strength in my prayers you
may all be sure you shall not want them, & perswade my self I have a share in
yours & if I knew when you would set apart any time to seek God as above I
would let my spirit be present with you & send up one sigh & groane for you.
I can send you no news, sometime a talk of a Parliament, sometime none.
Things are in the City much as when Mr Markwick was here, only is it
expected a great many will be excommunicate for not receiving the sacraments
at Easter or the next Lords day according to the order of the B. of
London. E. of Salisbury"" some say is dead, & E. of Musgrave. With kind love
I rest
Your very lo father

Sa: Jeake
[April 1]2""° 1683

To Mr Sa Jeake Junior Merchant in Rye Sussex"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	700		To Mr Sa Jeake Junior Merchant in Rye Sussex		1683	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_153	ESRO FRE 5099	[153] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 15 May 1683. Original letter.	171	Sa: Jeake	Lov: Son	"Your ever lov father
Respects to all friends.
I have wrot to Mr Greenwood that he may send the lowest price of the land
to you."		May 15 1683		"*Probably the third Earl of Salisbury. Salisbury was a popular figure among opponents of
Charles II, although probably not directly involved in any of the plots. He was gravely ill in April
1683 but did not die until 24 May. Victor Stater, 'Cecil, James, third earl of Salisbury (d. 1683),
ODNB.
*Sir Thomas Pilkington and Samuel Shute were elected sheriffs of London and Middlesex in
March 1681. They were both instrumental in attempts to turn the corporation of London intoa
political entity to rival Parliament. A series of disorderly meetings and polls led to both men
being sent to the Tower and then charged with riot in 1683. Pilkington was pardoned by James II
in 1686. Gary S. De Krey, 'Pilkington, Sir Thomas (16281691)
, ODNB.
The marriage took place on 28 July 1683. W. A. Speck, 'George, prince of Denmark and duke
of Cumberland (16531708)
, ODNB.
"" Patience Ward was a prominent merchant and spokeman for London dissenters. He gave
evidence in the trial of Thomas Pilkington who faced a charge of scandalum magnatum for
alleging that the Duke of York had burnt London. Ward was charged with perjury after
Pilkington's conviction. Gary S. De Krey, 'Ward, Sir Patience (16291696)
, ODNB."	"Lov: Son

In answer to yours of the 7"" and 12"" instant. The information of Mr Miller

touching Mr Wares his house at Winchelseas I suppose was misunderstood &

referred to the house Mr Wares lived in, which an heire of one Purfield

claimed & got from him, and not to this house which he bought of Mr Wats

of Appledore, the writings for which I made and they were left in my custody

& were in the upper drawer of the court cupboard when I came away from

Rye you may nevertheless enquire concerning it of some Winchelsea man. As

to Mrs Greenwoods land I think I wrot you before how Robert Brown might

write to her son Mr Daniel Greenwood in Oxford in Brasenose Colledge if he

had any desire to deale for the land. As to the case of W Eaton if he & his

wife have levied a Fine of his lands to the use of such persons and their heires

exended &c as he shall mortgage grant &c then is the Freehold in Abeyance

and shall subsequently follow such uses as he shall appoint. And after the

terme is done a mortgage may be made from him (in which his wife need be

no party nor is it convenient she should) but the party to whom they levied

the Fine may be a party (& if by the Indenture leading the uses of Fine there
be any to serve for his consent to such disposal must be a party) otherwise the
mortgage to run as usual, & so far as I see by the expression of the uses in
your Letter need be no party but the mortgage may be made only from W
Eaton who had the sole power to dispose, nor need there any mention of the
Fine in the mortgage, but it will be meet the mortgage have the part of the
Indenture that leads the uses of the Fine left in his custody. Mr Drinkers
mortgage I was paid for but whether it lye in the upper drawer of the court
cupboard or in the little Box under the little Table, or in one of the Boxes
between the little Table & the north wall I remember not. The Accompt of
Mr Samson and Mr Holman touching Richard Youngs two children I were
not paid for. You may take for them what you think reasonable I had not
much trouble to write them. The Ryot charged on Sheriff Pilkington, Shute
and severall others was found against them last saterday at which tryal it is
said the L. C. J. carried himself some passionately yet it is thought is not very
easie in his place and either his dismission or resignation is expected. Yet since
the trial a writ of Error is granted. Prince George the K of Denmarkes brother
is expected shortly to came over & marry the Duke of Y daughter Anne, and
tis said will be made Duke of Cumberland."" Some talk yet continues of a
parliament about Michaelmas next. Sir Patience Ward is charged with perjury
in his deposition at the tryal of the Scandalum Magnatum against Y &
to come to his tryal they say next saterday."" The Argument for the
Hartfordshire men upon the stat of the 23th of Eliz is to be argued too morrow
it is thought the Judges will declare against the dissenters thereupon
though yet that court hath shuffled off their judgment thereon openly in
court so far as I hear what ever their particular opinions have been in private.
The Lord increase and continue your Graces and blessings and helpe you to
do his will & make you able to suffer for him. Take my kind love herewise to
your self & wife being still

Your ever lov father

Sa: Jeake
May 15 1683
Respects to all friends.
I have wrot to Mr Greenwood that he may send the lowest price of the land

to you.

To his loving son Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	674		To his loving son Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye		1683	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_154	ESRO FRE 5296	[154] Barbara Hartshorne to Samuel Jeake junior, 19 May 1683[?]. Original letter.	173	Hartshorne.	Dear Sonne		"Lond May the 19"""				"Lond May the 19""
Dear Sonne
I had a letter this day from my dear Betty am glad to heare of your good
health. Capt Eve was at my Cusen Whitmans I thinke about Munday was
aloan Mr Whitman would have come for me but he pretended hast saayd he
would come agane a Thursday where I sat to expect him but he hath not been
there since. 1 am never like to end my Business with Mr Goodenough I suppose
he meanes to shew som trick Sir Thomas Player told Mr Firman he
could have had forty pound but he did not except it & now cannot hear further.
Mr Goodenough was not to be spoke with. Some did suppose the riot
might be the cause some say he is not worth six pence but I rather fear he
desigens to get more money of me though Mr Firmen told me they did not
charge Nat with any wronge he had done his Master of money but that there
was some small matter due to nat upon account. I have lost Nat againe cannot
learne what is become of him. I am tired out of my life & my troubles
doth discompose me. I was forced to my bed yesterday all day to be tired I
would not undergoe soe much as I have done for a hundred pound twill certainly
kill me I shall never se poore Betty again I feare tis not probable I can
possible recover to goe through this trouble I am tumbled from post to pillar
& nobody regards my busines wither was I willing to undertake it knowing
my owne insufficience to performe it but hear I am afflicted tormented without
any relief. I received this day of Mr Mun eight pound upon Mr Millers
account pray paye him tell Betty a sute of riban will cost ten shilling, the
girdles are mostly tied before your Good father is well & we all remember our

kind loves & to all friends. I am Dear sonne yr loving Mother Barbara
Hartshorne.

For Mr Sam. Jeake Jun. in Rye Sussex"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	355		For Mr Sam. Jeake Jun. in Rye Sussex		1683	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_155	ESRO FRE 5102	[155] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 26 May 1683. Original letter.	173	Sa: Jeake	My Deare son	"Your very lo: father
Take here with Cosins love"		May .26. 1683		"Not Thomas Crouch, jurat and mayor of Rye, who is recorded in the Astrological Diary as
having died in August 1682, More likely to be same Thomas Crouch noted as a travelling
companion to Samuel junior in several letters in chapter 2. FRE 4827, FRE 4833, FRE 48357;
chapter 3, FRE 4862. Hunter and Gregory, Astrological Diary, p. 159.
"" Friday.
""Lord Chief Justice Edmund Saunders presided at Pilkington's trial and that of Patience Ward
but was taken ill in late May 1683 and forced to step down. He died on 19 June 1683. Stuart
Handley, 'Saunders, Sir Edmund (d. 1683)', ODNB.
* Charles II of Spain (16611700)
."	"My Deare son

Yours of the 24"""" instant inclosing a note of the 19"" with one for your mother

this day received by the hands of Mr Stephen Porter who came well to London

this day and besides his remembrance to you & my daughter desires you to

remember him to both his Cosin Millers & Mr Sa: Gillart. Before your letter
I heard this weeke by Mr Skeets that widow Girdler was dead but the bond
you mention she left not with me, when Mr Shamel and Mr Gibbons was with
her at the house she had the bond there but carried it away with her againe.
They desired her she would leave it with some body that in case she should
dye might deliver the bond in which she promised she would but into whose
hands she intended then to put it she mentioned not, nor when she was last
with me at Rye did I see it. I had no more of hers to dispose of then the £6
which was lent Mr Padiham and the Bill for the same lay in her bag with the
{words struck out] Paper wherein I had set down what I had paid her &
received for her. When you write to Mr Curteis remember my love to him. I
am sorry for your loss of Mr Tho: Crouch who I doubt not but hath gained
by his death, being gone where the wicked cease from troubling & the weary
be at rest. I pitty his poore cosins of whom he took care, the Lord provide for
them. I thinke no man can put downe any house to lay another open but he
must make up the breach or else an Action of the case lies against him at the
suite of the Owner of the house so dammified. As to the monies you have put
out or remaining by you I shall as yet draw none from you till I see more.
Things are bad enough yet. The Hartford dissenters the last 2"" in the terme
cast who pleaded the 23th of Eliz: to be not intended against Protestants
which they proved themselves to be & 5. before the end of the terme. Sir
Patience Ward by the jury convict of perjury for words in his evidence at
Pilkingtons trial though in his evidence delivered himself so warily as to the
best of his remembrance, he heard no such words spoken by Mr Pilkington,
not positive but reserving himself to his memory. Some say he is gone since.
Other talke of designes against others. L C J. Sanders"" is so ill it's thought he
will not be able to officiate next terme. Some say the K of Spaine'' is like to
dye, & that 3. pretend to the Crown, the Emperor, the French King & the
duke of Medina Coeli. Your Mother remembers to you & your wife & desired
me to write you that Capt Eve hath failed to see her or give her other security
here so she would have you write to him by some body that goes to Adlington
Court next weeke, and to tell your wife that the things she wrote to her in the
letter she this day received she cannot buy, it coming but now to her hands &
she intending to come away Monday morning next by the Tunbridge coach.
Dr Stacey last time I saw him ordered me when I wrote to you to remember
him to you [words struck out]. The Most High bless, keepe and be all in all to
you for ever. Remember me to all true friends with you, for whom with your

selfe & wife I often bow my knees to the Master of the whole family in heaven
& earth. lam

Your very lo: father

Sa: Jeake
Take here with Cosins love

May .26. 1683

To Mr Sa Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	658		To Mr Sa Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1683	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	UNK	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_156	ESRO FRE 5103	[156] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 7 June 1683. Original letter.	175	Sa: Jeake	Dear Son	"Your truly lo: & tender father
Holwell"" hath set out an Appendix to his former piece I have bought it for 6d."		June 7 1683			"Dear Son

[hope these will find you, your wife & mother in health though I have not had
a line from you this fortnight, but I understood by Mr Tournay & Mr Gillart
that your mother got home well & that you were well when they left Rye so I
am the better satisfied. I have little to write to you only the opportunity of
conveyance by Mr Gillart hath put the pen in my hand. Stand fast in the Faith
& having brought the truth sell it not. Be thankfull for what monies you have,
put your trust only in the Lord and feare not. Let not the example of any that
relapse stagger you. Nothing venture, nothing have is an old saying & may be
verified in a Christians adventures for God. They that sow sparingly shall
reape sparingly. I had rather see you a Martyr than an Apostate. None ever
yet was a looser by Gods service, set your eye on the joy before you & endure
the contradictions of sinners, [word illegible] the cross, contemne the world,
Rejoyce under Temptation, Trials, Afflictions &c. Let the joy of the Lord be
your strength. I have no greater joy in the Earth then to see you walke in the
truth, as you have received a commandment from the father. The end will
crown your work, fight the good fight of faith, lay hold of eternal life, press
through discouragement to the price of the high calling of God in Christ, yet
a little while & you shall not see him but againe a little while & you shall see
him. Endeavour after more love to God & joy in him that none of his commandments
may be grievous. Be instant in prayer, often in meditation. Trust
not in uncertain riches, Avoid all distrustfull and distracting cares. Delight
yourself in the Lord & he shall give you your hearts desires. The God of all
grace stablish strengthen & perfect you, bless you & all yours make you a seed
of the blessed of the Lord & your offspring with you. True love to you &all
friends with you from
Your truly lo: & tender father

Sa: Jeake
June 7 1683

Holwell"" hath set out an Appendix to his former piece I have bought it for 6d.

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	395		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1683	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_157	ESRO FRE 5107	[157] Elizabeth Jeake to Samuel Jeake junior, 21 July 1683. Original letter.	176	Elisabeth Jeake	My Dear	"Your ever Faithfull and Loving Wife
I received your commission my Dear by Mr Edward and have executed it."	Rye Fy July 21* 1683			 Not listed in the Jeake library catalogue.	"Rye Fy July 21* 1683

My Dear
I received your kink kind letter and return you thanks for it. I am glad you got
safe to your joyrne journeys end. I am sorry to hear my Father is so ill I hope
this will find him better. Be sure make much of your self and be not to
Melancolly, My Mother [words struck out] remembers her to your self and
Father and all other friends with you. News we have none save only a Barge
was hear here on Thursday. I am much concerned for your abscence. My Dear
pray return as soon as possibly you can. Mr Waters hath not been here yet.
My Mother hath disposed of part of her money to Mr Horne. I do intend if
Knight and Videan come before you come home, I will get them to leave the
money with Mr Smith and they to speake to Mr Finch to let the suit rest till
he hear further from you. if you dislike it pray contradict it speedily lest they
come before I receive your letter and send me word how to proceed in it. My
respects for your Dear self. My Duty to my Father with service to Cousins. I
am

Your ever Faithfull and Loving Wife

Elisabeth Jeake

I received your commission my Dear by Mr Edward and have executed it.

For Mr Sa: Jeake junior to be left for him at"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	241		For Mr Sa: Jeake junior to be left for him at		1683	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_158	ESRO FRE 5108	[158] Elizabeth Jeake to Samuel Jeake junior, undated. Original letter.	177	Elisabeth Jeake	Deare Mr Jeake	your Loving wife					"Deare Mr Jeake
I would pray you to buy me a pair of things to keep the sides from ringing
they be for my Mother and one girdle with a pair of red shoe string let them
shoestrings be sattin. I have nothing elsse to say but wishing this may finde
you well J remain
your Loving wife
Elisabeth Jeake

My Mother continues very ill but the Chirurgeon flaters her still it pains her
very much. [words struck out] My Mother greifs veary much for fear my Br
will not be a good boy My Mother & self desire to be remembered to all our
Cosins with you.

To Mr Samuel Jeake at Mr John Mackleys in Tooleys Street near the
Bridgefoot in Southwarke"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	124		"To Mr Samuel Jeake at Mr John Mackleys in Tooleys Street near the
Bridgefoot in Southwarke"	"My Mother continues very ill but the Chirurgeon flaters her still it pains her
very much. [words struck out] My Mother greifs veary much for fear my Br
will not be a good boy My Mother & self desire to be remembered to all our
Cosins with you."	1683	ELIZABETH JEAKE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	1667	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_159	ESRO FRE 5109	[159] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 4 August 1683. Original letter.	177	Sa: Jeake	Lov: Son	Your ever lo: Father		"August 4"" 1683"		"""Vienna was besieged by forces of the Ottoman Empire and eventually relieved by Habsburg
forces. Geoffrey Holmes, The Making of a Great Power: Late Stuart and early Georgian Britain
16001722
(Harlow, 1993) 12.
""Possibly Carolus Butler, Rhetoricae Libri Duo (London, 1649), Hunter et al., Radical's Books,
267.
"	"Lov: Son

The Letter your wife sent to Cosin Wightman came to my hands after you
went. And by yours to Cosin Jaye I understand you got home well and found
your Relations there in health which I am glad of. Through mercy I have gotten
on my shooe again & begin to go with more ease but yet have not been
abroad. Cosin Jaye went with her sister Mackley to Maidstone last Tuesday
when they return I know not. Cosin Mackley remains as ill there as she was
when she went home. I have heard nothing of your Brother since you went.
Vienna is certainly besieged*' but not taken that I heare yet. Excuse me from
writing any news. If you have not put up the Books I spoke to you of put up
with them Butlers & Farnabies Rhetorick old that stood under the great
map. My kind love to you, your wife Mother & other friends with you. Father,
Son & Spirit bless you & keepe you. Farewell
Your ever lo: Father
Sa: Jeake
August 4"" 1683

For Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Samuel senior in exile, 1682-1683°	ENGLISH	188		For Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex			ELIZABETH JEAKE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	1667	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE			15	FALSE	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_160	ESRO FRE 529]	[160] Nathaniel Hartshorne to Barbara Hartshorne, undated. Original letter,	178		Deare and ever Honoured Mother	"Deare Mother
Your disconsolated But ever dutifull & obedient son."					"Deare and ever Honoured Mother

I have not heard from you since I saw you which makes me feare you are gone
out of Towne Pray Mother let me heare from you to night and whether you
have done anything considerable for my preservation for I am very fearefull
of the next sessions at the Old Bayly which as I am informed will be within
this [words struck out] fortnight or 3 weekes at farthest for I am informed this
Morning that there are severall Indictments ready drawne up to present
against me at the next sessions. 2 of their names are My Ld Pagett and Mr
Stratford which Indictments if I am burned in the hand upon will be very
hard with me and then upon the other Indictments of Sir Roger Hill and
others that I must afterwards be tryed upon both her & in the Country after
that it will infallibly take away my life but if you get my pardon betweene this
and the next sessions at the Old Bayly it will prevent the charge that will
depend upon my Tryall there and that which is worse [word struck out] will
prevent my being burned in the hand here for I had in a Manner as leave be
hanged as be burned in the hand but to be first burned in the hand and then
hanged is double shame as well as death after this manner. Consider Mother
the Torment and perplexity that I have in my mind for feare of this ignominious
death to dye in health, the prime of my yeares and all these things considered
may be saved for £150 or £200 most. Mother if I had £10000 I would
pay it all downe if I come to begg afterwards for my living I would do it for
with as much cheerfullness and willingness as I would save my owne life to
save yours if it should happen so which I Pray God Preserve and prevent.
Pray Mother take me in to your consideration a little before it be too [late].
Deare Mother give some hopes of my life that I may be at Rest Mother this
Cooke [words lost] have my 4d a day from does abuse me so that I am like to
be starved he brings me alwal[ys] [words lost] stinking meate that it is enough
to poison me and so little that it does not satisfy [me]. Pray order me something
more and better or else I cannot subsist I have been forced to sell my
stockings for money to buy me meate Pray Mother send me a little money by
this bearer to get me something to take when I take Phisicke which will be to
morrow evening for have a very foul stomach and a severe griping in the Gutts
Pray Mother do not faile to send me an Answer to all these requests but
especially that I may have some assurance of my life so lam

Deare Mother

Your disconsolated But ever dutifull & obedient son.

{from the] Gatehouse Westminster.

For Mrs Barbara Hartshorne att Mr Jayes an Apothecary at the sign of the
Golden Lion in Fenchurch Street in London"	Nathaniel arrested, 1683	ENGLISH	535		"For Mrs Barbara Hartshorne att Mr Jayes an Apothecary at the sign of the
Golden Lion in Fenchurch Street in London"		1683	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_161	ESRO FRE 5299	[161] Nathaniel Hartshorne to Barbara Hartshorne, undated. Original letter.	179	Nath: Hartshorne.	Honoured Mother	"Your ever dutifull obedient and ever lasting loving son
Deare, Deare Mother to me come away directly and save me deare Mother].
I will never trouble againe tis not my guilt brings this but Malice
For Mrs Barbara Hartshorne att her house in Rye in Sussex. These are sent
with all speed."					"Honoured Mother
I have this day seene Mrs [word struck out] Burt and she hath shewen me a
letter from you that was as it seemes a letter to informe you that I were in
some danger of my life which is really true for I were on Saterday last as my
letter then sent from hence to you did express taken into Custody and
Committed to the Gatehouse Prison and there is Sr Roger Hill my Lord
Pagett and severall other Persons that have sworn positive Roberies against
me for Robbing their houses and such like matters that I shalt be tried on
Wednesday next being 2 dayes hence att the sessions house at the Old Bayly
in London where I am informed that there all the Malicious Designes against
my life as possibly can be justified in the whole world. I humbly begg of you
for my life sake If you did not come to me at the sight of my last letter to
come away directly upon the sight of these lines for I am prosecuted with all
the Malice in the whole world for Jesus Christ's sake come to me directly or I
ama dead man. If I have not somebody to come to me to look after I must
bege of you as I did before to bring Captaine Hall with you to go to [word
illegible] Jenkins and others and some others of my friends to do me all the
kindness that may be done for I feare there is occasion you do not imagine
what mercy can do. For God sake come come Deare mother for my innocence
will excuse me. I hope for God knows I am innocent. I remaine in greate
hopes of your coming or else I am a deade man. I am in hast

Your ever dutifull obedient and ever lasting loving son

Nath: Hartshorne.
From the Gatehouse at Westminster on Munday.
Deare, Deare Mother to me come away directly and save me deare Mother].
I will never trouble againe tis not my guilt brings this but Malice

For Mrs Barbara Hartshorne att her house in Rye in Sussex. These are sent
with all speed."	Nathaniel arrested, 1683	ENGLISH	366		From the Gatehouse at Westminster on Munday.		1683	NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	MALE	FEMALE	1644	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_162	ESRO FRE 5300	[162] John Vanderkers to Barbara Hartshorne, 30 August 1683. Original letter.	180	John Vanderkers	Madam.	"Madam
Your assured friend &
servant
in haste"		"St James the
30"" of August 1683"			"Madam.

According to my promise I went to speake with them that were concerned
with mee in procuring your Sons pardon but they are gone with the kings
most Excellent Majestie to the Citty of Winchester, onely one is gone to
Thissleworth at his country house, whither I now goe toe, and tomorrow
morning I hope to bee heere againe to speake with you at the Horseshoe
tavern or at the Apothecary's shop in Fenchurch Street about what is transacted
in the business: Madam assure your selfe of your expectation & that
what I promised shall bee performed, and everything
done, and nothing
[word illegible] but honestly on each side which I expect tomorrow
by 10a
clock [words struck out] to be performed upon which pray Madam goe too
bed & do not trouble your head more this night then I shall does in procuring
what is desired. I am

Madam
Your assured friend &
servant
John Vanderkers
St James the
30"" of August 1683
in haste

To Madam Hartshorne at Mr Ralph Birts at the Horsshoe
Taverne in Drury
Lane."	Nathaniel arrested, 1683	ENGLISH	181		"To Madam Hartshorne at Mr Ralph Birts at the Hors-shoe Taverne in Drury
Lane."		1683	NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	MALE	FEMALE	1644	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_163	ESRO FRE 5297	[163] Barbara Hartshorne to Samuel Jeake junior, 4 September 1683[?]. Original letter.	181	Barbara Hartshorne	Dear sonne	"London from Mr Whitmans
seven a Clock at
night your Loving Mother"		"Sep the 4"""			"Dear sonne
[hope these may finde you safe at home with Deare wife I can come to noe
means to be further informed about the certainty of nats pardon but I
doubt if there be not speedie course it will goe worse with him then I desir
or you suspect. I am just now taken off his Irons which cost me 3 whole
guines besides thee two shillings to them that tooke them off I have had five
pound of Mr Miller I would faine have the bed & Boulter weighed to give
an account what it comes to before she bargain Your father I left trasgood
your father in as good health as you parted with him. I am in great hast &
very weary
London from Mr Whitmans
seven a Clock at
night your Loving Mother
Barbara Hartshorne
Sep the 4""

These for Mr Sam: Jeake att Rye in Sussex"	Nathaniel arrested, 1683	ENGLISH	152		These for Mr Sam: Jeake att Rye in Sussex		1683	JOHN VANDERKERS	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	MALE	FEMALE	UNK	UNK	UNK	1600-1640	POLITICAL	UNK	UNK	UNK	UNK		UNK	"""JOHN VANDERKERS"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_164	ESRO FRE 5298	[164] Barbara Hartshorne to Samuel Jeake junior, 7 September 1683[?]. Original letter.	181	Barbara Hartshorne.	Dear sonne	Your sorrowful Mother		Sept. the 7”			"Sept. the 7""

Dear sonne

To tell you of my troubles will be noe content nor newes only thus much, I
have neither seen nor spoke with the Duch man since you saw him & hope
he can take noe advantage by that, Nat a Thursday sent me word I must
come to the horse shoe tavern presently for the Vanderkirsh was goeing to
Winchester for his friend had wrot him word if he had not his resolution
that post he would not meddle with it, by that I finde there is new plots a
laying for a greatter sum. Oh that the lord would give me a spirit to bear
these troubles or lay his healing hand on me to deliver me out of them all,
iust now I have a lamentable letter from Nat which is like to breake my
heart. Justice Newman is out of towne for two moneths as I am told. I have
not seen son Holman neither if he were heer could doe me much good I
looke upon friends but there is none to helpe. Your father is very well &
gone abroad this afternoon but I a miserable creature my affectionate love
to you & your poore wife I hope she did not se Mrs Manooch child Cosins
remember their loves to you both.
Your sorrowful Mother
Barbara Hartshorne.
These for Mr Sam: Jeake att Rye in Sussex"	Nathaniel arrested, 1683	ENGLISH	236		These for Mr Sam: Jeake att Rye in Sussex		1683	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	UNK	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_165	ESRO FRE 5292	[165] Rich. Brumfould [Nathaniel Hartshorne writing under an assumed name] to Barbara Hartshorne, undated. Original letter.	182	Rich. Brumfould	Honoured Mother,	"Deare Mother
Your poore distressed yet dutifull son"				"The diary records Nathaniel's escape as having been in October 1683. Hunter and Gregory,
Astrological Diary, 166."	"Honoured Mother,

I were last week to see you but you would not be seen so I went away againe
and Saterday night I went downe to Gravesend to see what might be done
there and there I found a Quaker that was going to Bardeaux and he would
not carry me under £7 so that I were forced to come home againe to London
for I considered that I know not what I should do then without either Money,
friends, acquanitance nor Creditt for if I had some money to carry me to
Parris and keepe me 2 or 3 Months till I could get acquainted to helpe me into
some manner of employment if it would maintaine me in any manner of
meane [word struck out] condition I could by degrees improve my selfe to live
better. It is very strange to me to consider that you can in the least Imagine
me safe here when I am dayly sought after and alwaies driven out from place
to place in such a hazzardous wayes as perhaps you cannot believe. I were in
Yorke buildings with Mr Bulger where we were surprised about 1 a clock at
night with a search of 2 or 300 men so that we were both forced naked as we
were out on the Topp of the house and if it had not beene for the pittifullness
of some of the gentry that let us into their Garretts we had beene both taken.
They shott their guns at us as we were on the houses but missed us. This is the
Second escape from thence. Mother do but do as my Brother advised you to
that is use your reason and you will do well enough but as you do now I am
sure you do not. In the first place can you Imagine me safe in England and in
the next place can believe that £10 will carry me to France. [word illegible] I
have none Periwiggs I have none nor any sort of linen but just to my backe
now nor shoes nor boots nor any thing that is fit or necessary for such a
journey. Mother if you do but think on these things impartially you cannot
but find your the errours of your judgement not to be small in this case. I have
no horse neither. Pray send a letter by this Porter and tell me your mind as
short as you can whether you had rather see me hanged than [word illegible]
alive and in a good condition in another countrey. Consult what I have written
here whether this is not very reasonable [word illegible] best be with my
Brother whom I doubt not but you will believe when I were in Prison you
grudged that charge but would not remedy it by getting me a Pardon or [word
illegible] and now I have done it without your knowledge or helpe only by
good natured strangers to whom I owe my life for their kindness to get me a
Pardon you would not, as you said to backe me you would not because you
dared not for feare should run away now I were told by your selfe as well as
others that you would straighten your self and lay down so far as £200 would
go all what I have saved as well as the other charge for before I could have
beene cleared. If I had escaped hanging it would in all things have cost you
between £50 or 60 thou you proposed to comply and compound that would
have cost you £100 or more with charges and now for one quarter of the
money that it would have cost you for my Pardon I can in all probability save
my life by going beyond sea and for you to strike out and [word illegible] me
that seems to not that you never designed my good or preservation because
the sum is so much less than what you said you would give for my Pardon
which I must needs [word illegible] if I should be taken but I hope to save that
for I very much doubt and have a great deal of reason to believe that I should
have no Pardon since my life is not worth £50 there hath beene a horse lost
that there hath beene more proferred to find him than you are now willing to
give for my life. Suppose that I were taken to night as God knows whether I
shall or no I have little reason to beleive that if I should have a Pardon if £50
would buy it but I dare be positive that £500 would not, for you proferred to
go as farr as £200 but I do am forced to believe you did but flatter me because
in the first place you proffered it in the next place that when you saw it might
be had you would not performe it all this treates jelousy in me to thinke you
never designed to save my life and now in a manner convinces me that you
had rather I should be hanged than not. People that were absolutely strangers
to me that might have £100 rather than faile £200 and want bread besides
where I lye will not betray my life but would rather go to Goale, severall that
have [words struck out] beene brought upon their Oathes (who are strangers
to me) to know where I were or whether they did not bring Tooles to bring me
out though they really did it and had a reward put in their hands of 30 guineas
to discover me refused both and also did their soules so much injury as to
sweare falsely. I have no freind in the whole world now I see plainely what I
never mistrusted nor would have believed if 10000 men had sworn that you
had lay downe £50 for my life but this looks very suspitious. Perhapps you
may do do as you do with the Imagination that I have other friends that will
do any thing for me but believe me I speake it from my soul and desire never
to escape this trouble I am in if I know any one in this world that will give me
£20 to save my life sure [you] cannot thinke that if I had so much money as I
do here desire which is but £40 in all that I would be so greate a sott and seeke
my owne Ruine so apparently as to stay in England in so much visible danger
of my life which is as sweete to me as yours is to loose you if you this kepe.
Pray put the money into any bodies hands you can trust and let them not give
me a penny till I am aboard and going off, if I should go to France as I am
without money friend acquaintance or Creditt I must be forced to steale and
there I should be starved in Gaole and hanged at last, Mr Bulger whose father
spent more than £1000 to get him a pardon and ruined him selfe to do that is
come to see his son and had but £12 in all the world hath given it him and his
friends & acquaintances have raised him £100 as I am told though they never
expect it againe and all this for to save his life they will do and more if neede
required it & since in all probability this will be the last that I shall desire of
you I pray to God to open your heart this case and never no more do I do find
it to be so hard to me as to provide what I have of thus heartily begged of a
Mother whom no body would believe but that the naturall tie of affection
should stirr you up to this most charitable deed towards me who am

Deare Mother

Your poore distressed yet dutifull son

Rich. Brumfould

Remember my kind love to every body

I am sure all this is reason and you ought in Conscience to thinke that what I
have done amiss to you before is not a good reason for you to deneigh what I
aske for my life for I am sure if I am [words struck out] hanged I can lay the
blame on none but you since I am escaped out of the greatest and worse danger
and tis in your power to keepe me so though I am the Author of it I must
Confess my selfe to be the Originall Cause of the trouble yet you may as well
say that God is the author of sin as I the occasion of my death if I am taken
but you are [words struck out]. My reasons are these first as J am your son
there naturall affection ought to oblidge in one respect [word illegible] I have
beene a great sinner and if I should be taken off by such a suddaine accident
God have Mercy of my soul for I have deserved none. Pray thinke of this and
send me an Answere by all means in the world for I am almost distracted and
fuller of care than where I were in Prison for now I am sensible of my waies
and unhappy Condition.

For Madam Barbara Hartshorne att Mr Jayes an Apothecaries at the sign of
the golden Lion in Fenchurch Street in London"	Nathaniel arrested, 1683	ENGLISH	1598				1683	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	UNK	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_166		[166] Old Bailey Proceedings Online, Trial of Nathaniel Hartshorn, Samuel Starkey,Breaking Peace: assault, 12th December 1683, t16831212-28 and s16831212-1	185									Trial at the Old Bailey, 1683	ENGLISH						NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	MALE	FEMALE	1644	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK				UNK	"""NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_167		[167] Calendar of State Papers, domestic, Charles II, February 1684°	185							"""Charles II: February 1684', in Calendar of State Papers Domestic: Charles II, 16834,
ed. F H
Blackburne Daniell and Francis Bickley (London, 1938), 253302
http://www.britishhistory.
ac.uk/calstate
-papers/domestic/chas2/16834
/pp253302
[accessed 23 August 2015]."	"Samuel Starkey to Secretary Jenkins.

I presume you have had an account of the trial at the Old Bailey on Lord
Paget's indictment of trespass against Mr. Hartshorn and myself whereon we
were each fined 100/., Lord Sunderland's warrants (though they both expressly
authorized us to search all suspected places) not being approved authentic to
search his house, being a peer, but no law or precedent was suggested to or by
the court to prove its illegality, and counsel are since of opinion that the verdict
and judgment was misled by mistake or error and that our defence was
not duly argued for want of counsel, that the same ought to be reversed by
appeal to the King and Council, and that the statute that says a peer's house
shall not be searched without the Lord Lieutenant or Deputy Lieutenant,
etc., for arms does not affect our case nor exempt any house or place from
being searched for traitors especially in so hot and close a pursuit as we then
were in. But I refer this and all other matters to your more mature determination.
After I had so eminently hazarded my life and fortune in accusing and
actually apprehending Aaron Smith and Simon and Samuel Maypn, by virtue
of your warrant and that of three Deputy Lieutenants to search for and seize
arms, etc., and by the assistance of several parties of militia horse assigned by
the Earl of Bridgwater, I made a strict search for above twenty days and
nights together and seized a great quantity of concealed arms, etc., at Mr.
Wharton's and Mr. Hampden's and narrowly missed Goodenough and Ayliffe
at Enfield and also at Sir Roger Hill's. After Lord Paget and Justice Newman
had trepanned me out of Whitehall and secured me without warrant or commitment
a day and night close prisoner and without warrant seized and
perused some of my private papers, and after I was released by you and committed
four days to a messenger's custody and on an examination before a
Cabinet council, then and not till then Lord Paget and Sir Roger, to stiffle my
testimony, pretended I had robbed them in searching their houses, whereon I
was recommitted to the Gatehouse to be prosecuted, but I was confined above
five months and neither prosecuted, tried, bailed or discharged though I
thrice tendered 10.000/. bail. At last Lord Paget shrank his pretensions to an
indictment of trespass only and suffered that too to sleep for four sessions, so
that at last I was forced to impanel a jury at my own charge and give notice of
trial at Hicks' Hall, but then to deprive me of the defence I had there made
ready of witnesses and counsel he removed the cause and without notice tried
it by surprise at the Old Bailey.

Sir Roger resolves to prosecute me at the next Aylesbury assizes, 3 March. The
guards assigned to assist us in our said search of Lord Paget's and Sir Roger's
house are a party of Sir Francis Compton's troop and are our only witnesses.
My life and reputation lie at stake and can be preserved only by their testimony
at the trial. Being a young man and rendered defenceless through a long
imprisonment, I am altogether incapable of taking such effectual measures as
my case requires. Since I have fallen under these unhappy circumstances and
through my said services have created many inveterate animosities amongst
the factious party, and Lord Paget and Sir Roger and others through their
instigation have made great stickling to stiffle my evidence and irritate his
Majesty and Council and yourself against me, I hope you will not prejudge my
cause but consider there is always a malignant party always ready to stigmatize
those that are most loyal and indefatigable to serve his Majesty. Therefore I
pray your favourable assistance that the said party of the Guards may be
specially ordered to attend and give their testimony on my behalf at my trial at
Aylesbury and that all my said warrants and papers may be forthwith
redelivered me or secured in some safe hands ready to produce at my trial."	Trial at the Old Bailey, 1683	ENGLISH	694				1683																
j_168	ESRO FRE 5295	[168] Barbara Hartshorne to Samuel Jeake junior, 5 May 1684[?] Original letter.	190	Barbara Hartshorne	Loving sonne	from your unhappie mother		May the fifth		For Nathaniel Hartshorne,	"May the fifth
Loving sonne
Yours I have am glad to hear you are in health but as to my businesse I can
efect nothing my lord told me that I must get bail'* but it must be the Capt or
master of a ship that would ingage to transport him to some of his [word
illegible] Ilands For he must keepe to the warrant & when he was shipt off
they should have their securitie againe being under the masters hand a sertificate
it was soe done but I can finde nobodie will medle with it unless they
might sell him I am not sure then but the taylor doeth much abuse me he must
be turned to the comon side how I shall perswad the taylor soe I know not he
takes noe notice of letters or if I could tie him up to five shillings a weeke he
hath out done Mr Markwikes order but siaes by Mr Markwiks order he let
him have thirteen shillings for his ocations besides severall fees he paid himselfe
I mean the taylor paid. What to doe in it I know nat lets him downe for
Ale & tobaco. I must intreat Mr Markwik to write to him & get an Answer
from him I am unwilling to paie the money unless he could be set at libertie
believe they doe contrive all the means that can be to hinder transportation
therefore I must leave him I mean nat or the taylor I dare not undertake it he
must goe to the common side & then then he can set downe nothing. Tell my
deare Bettie there is no such roles worne as her lace is but twisted roles with
such small white lace as her former one was. What to doe with this taylor I
remember he wrot to Benson for his bill at the Asies according to the contents
of his former letter but there came none till now & exceeding one Your father
& all friends are well hear & remember our kinds loves to you

from your unhappie mother

Barbara Hartshorne

Sir Thomas Ginner would not have patience to hear me speake to him bid me
not trouble him yet I said somthing before him I fear may doe me a mischife I

am not fit to you about any business doe nothing but hartly wishe I were wise.

Let Sara know I have bought her a basket I cannot tell how she will have it]
must not be by the carr{ier].

To Samuell Jeake in Rye in Sussex"	The persecution of dissenters, 1684	ENGLISH	432		To Samuell Jeake in Rye in Sussex	"Sir Thomas Ginner would not have patience to hear me speake to him bid me
not trouble him yet I said somthing before him I fear may doe me a mischife I
am not fit to you about any business doe nothing but hartly wishe I were wise.
Let Sara know I have bought her a basket I cannot tell how she will have it]
must not be by the carr{ier]."	1684	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	UNK	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_169	ESRO FRE 5170	[169] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 13 June 1684. Original letter.	191	Tho: Miller	Loving Friend	Sir Your faithfull Friend	"London the 13"" June 1684"				"London the 13"" June 1684
Loving Friend
Sir Your acceptable one of this 7"" Instant is well receved and have delivered
yours to your Father and heare inclosed is one from him; he is not well. I went
yesterday with yours to Mr Spiller but he was not at his lodging so I did not
se him but I left your letter with his man who will give it him; the news you
wrote me of the death of my Cozan Hawksworth proves true, which I am
heartily sorry to heare; I do se you have receved for me 8s 3d for which I
thanke you; I am sorry to heare what entertainement your Naighbours give
you, but I do suppose it is no more than you did expect from them. I wishe
they do not proseed hier, the good Lord keep you & direct you for the best for
his glory & your owne Comfort. Your good Company I do much mise, my
kind love to your selfe, wife & Mother presented and to all friends with you;
my Brothers remember them to you; and Mr Smith & his wife present there
loves to you all; I cannot yet advise you what will be done in our busines this
Terme for I have not yet seen Mr Spiller, I do much feare an appearance this
Terme; my kind love to my Uncle and Aunt Shinner if at Rye, I heare Mr
Markwicke is removing his shope to Battle & hath hired a house & shope
there; I wishe him well to whom present my respects when you se him. Capt.
Fissend[en] is very ill in Towne; Sir Tho: Armestrong is brought from Holland
prisoner & is in Newgate. I have not else needfull at present but am
Sir Your faithfull Friend
Tho: Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Merchant at Rye"	The persecution of dissenters, 1684	ENGLISH	311		To Mr Samuel Jeake Merchant at Rye		1684	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_170	ESRO FRE S171	[170] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 19 June 1684. Original letter.	191	Tho: Miller	Lov: Friend	Sir your ever Lov: Friend	"London the 19"" June 1684"				"London the 19"" June 1684
Lov: Friend
Sir Both yours of the 7"" and 16"" Instant I have receved & returned you an
answer by Mr Young. The latter I answer that the bill your Mother sent me I
have receved and am promised the payment of it next munday; when receved
I will advise her & I am free to paye my selfe the £30 she had of me & the
remaine to Mr Jaye, I shall speake to Mr Spiller as you desire when I return
but I suppose it is done alredy by Tho: Shooesmith, when you have occasion
to write to me in hast you may direct it to Mr Jos: Smith & Inclose mine to
me; I have acquainted your Father with what you wrote me at the bottom of
your letter. I se you have the news of our Outlawry, which was obtained
against us these may advise you we have reversed it altho it be with great
charge; and all the benefit of it is the getting time till lent sises, at which time
they will bring us to a tryall; for they are very violent upon us & I expect no
favour from them; therefore I shall provide for the worst. I thanke you for
minding the leting my houses, which I se you can not do; your Father is not
well; Capt: Fissenden cam up to London & is dead heare, god hath taken him
from the evil to com; all friends heare are well; my kind love with my Brothers
presented to you & your wife & Mother & all friends with you; Mr Smith &
wife are well and remember them to you; I have not else needfull but am
Sir your ever Lov: Friend
Tho: Miller

Sir I praye be pleased to receve of Capt: Eve for me £7 10s for one yeares
Interest due the 10"" May 84. I have ordred him to paye it you and you will
oblidge me.

To Mr Samuel Jeake Merchant at Rye"	The persecution of dissenters, 1684	ENGLISH	341		To Mr Samuel Jeake Merchant at Rye	"Sir I praye be pleased to receve of Capt: Eve for me £7 10s for one yeares
Interest due the 10"" May 84. I have ordred him to paye it you and you will
oblidge me."	1684	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_171	ESRO FRE 5172	[171] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 26 June 1684. Original letter.	192	Tho: Miller	Mr Sa: Jeake Junior	Sir your faithfull friend	"London the 26"" June 1684"				"London the 26"" June 1684
Mr Sa: Jeake Junior
Sir My respects to you presented, & to your good wife & Mother, I did returne
you answers to both yours & these are to desire you to advise your Mother I
did last Munday receve her bill of £41 17 s & I have paid my selfe the £30 she
had of me & 3s for interest one munth & I have cansled her bond, more! paid
to Mr Spiller 3s and the remaining £11 11s I will paye to Mr Jaye according
to her order, when he returnes home for he is now out of Towne; I heare there
is no pardon to be obtained for Mr Hartshorne he must either be hanged or
transported; I suppose the women that were imployed by your Mother have
given her a full account of that matter before this, I am sorry for him & his
Mother & all of you his relations; I praye god it may be sanctified to all; your
good Father is som what better than he has been for som time past I praye
god continue it to him; it is a very hot and dry time with us; all friends heare
are well & I hope they are the sam with you, Mr Jaye is this day gon with Mr
Freebody to Lidd; I have not else needfull but my hearty love & respects to all
friends in generall with you as if named, both my Brothers went last satterday
for France wheare I hope they are well arrived before now; I Commit to the
Lord & rest
Sir your faithfull friend
Tho: Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake At Rye these in Sussex"	The persecution of dissenters, 1684	ENGLISH	287		To Mr Samuel Jeake At Rye these in Sussex		1684	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_172	ESRO FRE 5173	[172] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 3 July 1684. Original letter.	193	Tho: Miller	Mr Jeake	Sir Yours to Command	London the 3° July 1684				"London the 3° July 1684
Mr Jeake
Sir Yours & your wifes I have receved & for answer these may advise you that
Idid write you all I knew of your Brother which I had from Mr Jaye who had
it from Mrs Lennard & Mrs Booths maid at there returne from seeking a
pardon; he advised them to acquaint your mother with a full account of it
which I judged they had done all I know more is that Mr Jaye tells me the
above two persons are gon downe to the Assises which was this weeke & at
there returne I suppose they will advise you the full what is done about them;
they are both under the same Condemnation, I have inquired for Mr John
Binglos & I find he is gone out of Towne. I shall follow your wifes direction
about the monys have not yet paid Mr Jaye; I thanke you that you will mind
my Bussines with Capt: Eve when you se him; your Father & all friends heare
are well; only Mrs Kennedy is taken ill this day of a feavour. I have heard
from my Brothers who are well arrived and remember them to you & all at
Rye; I have not else but my kind love with all your friends heare presented to
you & your wife & Mother & to all our friends in generall in Towne I rest
Sir Yours to Command
Tho: Miller"	The persecution of dissenters, 1684	ENGLISH	245				1684	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_173	ESRO FRE 5175	[173] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 21 July 1684. Original letter.	193	Sa: Jeake	Lo: Son	your lo: Father	Lond: July .21.	1684			"Lo: Son

Yours of the 7"" instant received and have since received of Mr Buckle the £12
on the Bill of Mr Smith which you sent inclosed. By Mr Kirby I received the
3. Books & have delivered Cosin Sa: Goph the coat you sent who returns you
thanks for it. You may let the Rings lye a while longer. I have not yet seen Mr
Kirby to pay him, if I should not see him you may satisffie him for bringing it
& his boy for leaving it at Cosin J'ay's. I am glad to heare you are all well, my
love to you all is herewith sent. I am through mercy in indifferent health. I
heare the Parson threatens to informe against you in the Crown Office. Mr
Scot hath lately shewed me some writing which he intended to have shewed
you, had they been come before you went down for better satisfaction of you
in his title to the lands mortgaged to you. I do not see but all is faire & cleer,
but if you desire any further accompt I will give you a Breviat of their contents.
She Cosin Jaye is yet in the countrey I purpose you will see her at Rye
before she returns, He remembers to you is pretty well save only a cold, Mr
James returns you thanks with his love to you for the paper you sent him. The
God of all grace be with you, all in you & for you, bless you & yours that I
may meet you another day in glory is the desire of

your lo: Father

Sa: Jeake
Lond: July .21.
1684

To Mr Sa: Jeake junior in Rye These"	The persecution of dissenters, 1684	ENGLISH	286		To Mr Sa: Jeake junior in Rye These		1684	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_174	ESRO FRE 5178	[174] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 14 August 1684. Original letter.	194	Tho: Miller		Sir Your Faithfull Friend	"London the 14"" Aug: 1684"				"Mr Sa: Jeake Junior
London the 14"" Aug: 1684

Sir Yours of this 9"""" Instant is receved and in it your bill of £41 1s which
yesterday I did get accepted & he doth promise to paye it next friday com
seven night at which time I shall demand it & dout not but it will be paid at
which time I shall follow your advise and deliver the noate to your father; I
thanke you for receving my bond of Mr Gillart I praye keep it till further
order; I do intend to write to Cousan Curteis to paye you the monys at least
halfe of it, which he promised me when at London he would do at Michmus
next & if he do I praye do me the favor to receve it & indorse it upon the bond
& remit me the monys to London, if you meet with returnes; your good
Father is well & so thro mercy all our friends heare are; my hearty love to you
and all friends with you, wishing you all hapines & peace & quiet. I Commit
you to the Lord & rest

Sir Your Faithfull Friend

Tho: Miller
Sir since the writing heare of I receved [yoJur Mothers letter & I have ingaged
Mr Monck to do what she desires & will write to his friend next post; which
is all with my respects to your Mother I rest T Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye these in Sussex"	The persecution of dissenters, 1684	ENGLISH	251	Mr Sa: Jeake Junior	To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye these in Sussex		1684	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_175	ESRO FRE 5180	[175] John Jaye to Samuel Jeake junior, 29 August 1684. Original letter.	195	You Jn° Jaye	Lo: Cosin		"London August 29"" 1684"				"London August 29"" 1684
Lo: Cosin
Yours I received and have accordingly sent you down the oranges and Limons
which with the baskett cost 2s I bless God wee gott safe to London in good
time a wedensday but my wife is not well otherwise shee had write to my
Cosin, Pray acquaint Mrs Hartshorne I was with Mr Moncke and he can give
me no account concerning her son he write to his Chapman at Aylesbury, but
he would not concerne himself in the business excusing it upon the account
of Sr Roger Hills being a great man, and he a tradesman so was fearfull to
appear upon any occasion for her sonn, I Returne you many thanks for all
your kindness which with mine and wives service to Mrs Hartshorne, your
self and Cosin, I rest your Lov: Cosin to serve you
You Jn° Jaye

To Mr Sam Jeake, Junior"	The persecution of dissenters, 1684	ENGLISH	152	To Mr Sam Jeake, Junior			1684	JOHN JAYE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN JAYE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_176	ESRO FRE 5181	[176] John Jaye to Samuel Jeake junior, 6 September 1684. Original letter.	195		Lo: Cosin	"Serve you Jn° Jaye
My Uncle desires to be Remembered to you all. Wee shall be glad to hear how
my Cosin is whether shee hath recovered the Indisposition wee left her under."	"London September 6"" 1684"				"London September 6"" 1684
Lo: Cosin
Wee having binn visited by a very sudden and amazing providence by the
Death of our Maid Anne who went to bed, well to all our apprehensions, last
Thursday night, and my wife found dead in her bed in the morning, hath
prevented [words struck out] her writing to Coz Jeake as shee designed, for
indeed it hath so much afflicted her that shee fears that with her former
Indisposition shee shall not quickly recover her selfe againe, my sister Mackley
is also very sick, which adds much more to indispose her, wee Desire a
Remembrance of us in your Prayers for a sanctifying of this astonishing
dispensation, that Instruction may goe a long with it and wee may hear His
voice in it that wee may be alsoe [word struck out] Ready that wee may be
upon our watch in this evill day. Present our service to Coz: Hartshorne which
with the Like to you, and Cosin I rest your Lo: Cosin to

Serve you Jn° Jaye

My Uncle desires to be Remembered to you all. Wee shall be glad to hear how
my Cosin is whether shee hath recovered the Indisposition wee left her under.

To Mr Sam Jeake Junior att Mrs Barbara Hartshornes In Rye Sussex"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	215		To Mr Sam Jeake Junior att Mrs Barbara Hartshornes In Rye Sussex		1684	JOHN JAYE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN JAYE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_177	ESRO FRE 5182	[177] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 7 October 1684. Original letter.	196	Sa: Jeake	Lov: Son	your ever lo: Father		"October 7"" 1684"			"Lov: Son
Yours of the 4"" instant inclosed in Cosin J'ay's by Mr Young received, & am
glad thereby to heare of the health of you & yours, in whose welfare part of
mine consists, and am at present indifferent through mercy, but she Cosin
Jaye continues ill still & though somewhat better then she hath been, is very
slow in recovery and sometimes puts me to question whether the issue may
not be mortall. Mr Miller long since gave me the note you mention, which I
have here sent you enclosed, & thought it not worth while to send it by post
to put you to charge, when I see him J intend to tell him what you wrot of Mr
Curteis. I hope because you write nothing to the contrary you are yet peaceable
[words struck out] The Lord will be yet a Sun & a Shield & give grace &
glory to them what walke uprightly. Seeke him & he will be found of you. Be
not ashamed of, nor a Shame to the Gospel of Christ, Walk humbly & holily
with God, Redeeme your time from Earthly things to heavenly. Keepe up a
Sence of the mercies you have to be thankfull, Trust in God alone for all.
Love the world less & Christ more. Let not any thing below him take up too
much roome in your heart. God almighty bless you & yours with all spiritual
temporal & eternal blessings & preserve you all spotless to his heavenly kingdome
with exceeding joy. Cosin Wightman hath been ill with this Fever that
is abroad & is not yet thoroughly recovered but except he & Cosin Jaye, your
other Relations here are well. With my kind love to yourself, wife, Mother,
Little one, & other friends I remain

your ever lo: Father

Sa: Jeake
October 7"" 1684

To Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye These"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	318		To Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye These		1684	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_178	ESRO FRE 5183	[178] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 10 October 1684. Original letter.	197	Tho: Miller	Lov: Friend	Sir Your Faithfull friend	"London the 10"" Oct: 1684"				"London the 10"" Oct: 1684
Lov: Friend
Sir At presant having so fit an oppertunity to write to you I could do no less
then present my most hearty love & due respects to you & your wife & Mother
being glad to heare by Mr Young of your good health as thro mercy all our
friends [are] heare only Mr Whiteman who hath been vfery] ill but now upon
mendment; & Mrs Jaye who [has] been & still is very ill of a feavor & som do
ques[tion] her recovery but I hope she may do well; but she is very weake &
lowe. Your good Father is in good health blessed be God for it; Sir according
to your former order I did receve the monys one the bill sent me & have made
a receipt upon the noate you gave me & delivered it to your Father as sone as
[had receved the mony & dout not but he hath or will send it you; I am glad
to heare you are at peace & quiet at Rye. I praye God continue it. Sir my
Cousan Curteis whose bond you have did promise me when in London to
paye me in £50 in part of said bond; about this time but I heare nothing from
him, which doth cause me to desire the favor of you to speake to him to paye
it you & do you indorse it upon the bond, tell him I have need of it as indeed
[ have, and that at presant it will do me great pleasure; if you could let my
house I should be oblidged to you; which is all needful but my love with my
Brothers to all friends with you & at Hasting. I Commit you to the protection
of the Almighty & rest
Sir Your Faithfull friend
Tho: Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior these in Rye"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	321		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior these in Rye		1684	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_179	ESRO FRE 5185	[179] John Jaye to Samuel Jeake junior, 14 October 1684. Original letter.	197		Lo: Cousin	"I Rest your Lo: Cosin
To Command Jn Jaye
Although my wife riseth every day shee is so weak that she is fain to lye upon
the bed almost continually not being able to get Across the roome without
help."	"London October 14"" 1684"				"London October 14"" 1684
Lo: Cousin
Yours by Mr Younge I received, and had the bill paid me by Mr Loyd last
Saturday. I have according to your desire sent your note with my receipt on
the back side. My Wife continues very weak wee have had the advice of two
Physicians, her belly is extreamly swelled, and last Saturday, and the Lords
day was so very full of pain and sick, together with vomiting that I very much
feared her, but I bless God yesterday and to day shee hath binn better, but
very wonderfull weak, that the Dr would have no company come to her shee
riseth every day towards noon, and hath comfortable nights for rest beyond
expectation, I bless the Lord for her spirit is much composed, and very comfortable
to her relations that are about her and J hope hath resigned her self
to the Lord to do with her what pleaseth him. Shee desired me to signifie to
you that if you thought good, and it was not to much trouble to you, shee
would pray to you to send her up her Nativity for one that you know too will
look over it,'* and Indeed I own it as a great Mercy, and very good providence
of the same person hath had opportunity now and then to visit her, for it hath
binn much to satisfaction. I did believe this account would not be unwelcome
to you, and therefore have the more Inlarged, but now shall conclude with
mine and Dear weak wives love and service to your Mother self and wife
Desiring an Intrest in your Prayers

I Rest your Lo: Cosin

To Command Jn Jaye

Although my wife riseth every day shee is so weak that she is fain to lye upon
the bed almost continually not being able to get Across the roome without
help.

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior att Mrs Barbara Hartshornes in Rye Sussex"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	327		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior att Mrs Barbara Hartshornes in Rye Sussex		1684	JOHN JAYE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN JAYE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_180	ESRO FRE 5187	[180] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 25 October 1684. Original letter.	198	Sa: Jeake	Lov: Son	Your lo: father		"October 25"""" 1684"		'S Samuel senior.	"Lov: Son

Yours of the 20"" instant, and am glad to heare you & yours are in health. I
perceive you received mine by Mr Y. but mention nothing of the letter I sent
you by Mr Kirby wherein I acquainted you that Mr Scot had paid me one &
twenty pounds for you, and I desired to know how you would dispose of it.
This day I saw him & gave him your Letter, & excused your writing to him for
that which he had done before, because I thought you had not my Letter
when you wrot, but if you send an [word struck out] Acquittance for him I
will take in mine againe for I only mentioned so much were received for your
use. I delivered Mr Miller and Cosin Mackley your Letters as you desired, &
when I wrot all desired to have their loves remembred to you. They are all in
health save she Cosin Jaye who remains still very weak & bad. Cosin Wightman
is got abroad again but is yet weak. Your presentation at Rye is no other than
that I thought would have overtook you sooner. The Lord fit you for it. And
if you do stay there you must expect it or worse. So far as I can see, I knowno
friend you have there that will shelter you from the storme, unless God do
more for you than he hath done for many others of his own, & what ground
you have to expect it you may consider. John White may sell the part of the
house Mr L: dwells in because it come to him as heire and is Gavelkind' provided
he have a valuable consideration & deliver the possession actually, but
otherwise the Sale is not good. I think £25 is not a valuable consideration.
The buyer must looke to it. His part in the land cannot be sold till he is full
21. because the land is not Gavelkind. The security taken in the names of
Infants I think is good being for their advantage. God Almighty bless you &
yours with his chiefest blessings my love to all remaining

Your lo: father

Sa: Jeake

October 25"""" 1684

For Mr Sam Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	379		For Mr Sam Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1684	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_181	ESRO FRE 5189	[181] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 2 December 1684. Original letter.	199	Sa: Jeake	Loy: son	"Lo: though aged Father
Your bill I paid Mr Pope.
To Mr Samuel Jeake junior in Rye These"		Dec 2 1684		A system of land tenure used particularly in Kent.	"Loy: son
Yours received by Mr Markwick and am glad to heare of your health & the

like of your Relations with you. I am through mercy in health at present but
Cosin Jaye is still ill and hath been but twice out of her chamber in the Dining
Roome these 10 weeks, her belly much swelled, sometimes full of cutting
paines, and some nights restless, yet some daies pretty cheery, speakes yet
pretty hearty, & though wasted of her flesh, yet breaths free, let her have a
share of your prayers. Your Aunt was not very well last time I saw her. Others
of our Relations are well here. Several remember to you particularly Mr Scot
& his son. The Letter inclosed from Mr Scot I have read and thinke you may
safely write so to Mr Kingsford as he desires but you were best send your
letter up hither that Mr Scot may send it to Canterbury. I shall send you the
Almanack you desire when to be had. I hope you have scraped cleere this last
session. I can do nothing but wish you and yours well both here and hereafter
For which I shall still pray, and remain with the affections of a

Lo: though aged Father

Sa: Jeake

Dec 2 1684
Your bill I paid Mr Pope.
To Mr Samuel Jeake junior in Rye These"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	230				1684	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_182	ESRO FRE 5190	[182] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 2 December 1684. Original letter.	200	Tho: Miller	Lov: Friend,	Sir Yours to Command	London the 2d Dec: 1684				"London the 2d Dec: 1684
Lov: Friend,

My most kind love with my Brothers to you & your wife & Mother presented
& to all friends with you I am glad to heare of your good healths and also that
you continue in peace I praye God continue it to you; I thanke you for your
speaking to my Cousan Curteis about my busines, but se you can not prevail;
I am sorry for it, but I praye when you have convenient oppertunity be pleased
to mind him of it againe & let him know that I have great want of it; by reason
my Brothers do call for there monys of me; I praye if you cannot get the
intrest principle get the Intrest due & make it receved upon the bond; I thank
you for your indevors to let my house, you desire to know what rent I demand
that I will leave holly to you & what you do I will stand to; but as for the great
house I do not care for letting of it to the french they do so much abuse a
house; but the little house; you may let them, for what you can get; if my
Cousan Curteis will paye you but £25 at a time in part of the bond I am willing
to take it & so be pleased to tell him; I have not else needful but to let you
know your good father is well, all other things I refere you to the bearer. I
Commit you to the Lord & rest

Sir Yours to Command

Tho: Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	279		To Mr Samuel Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1684	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_183	ESRO FRE 5193	[183] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 1 January 1684/5. Original letter.	200	Sa: Jeake	Lo: Son	"your very lo: father
Several remember to you which I omit to mention."		Jan 1 1684/5		"""Venus.
'' Mercury.
""Sun."	"Lo: Son

The last I received from you had in it the note for Mr Scot which I sent him
and acquainted him with what you wrot me, but have not seen him since, so
as whether he will make use of. it or not I yet know not. Inclosed is the
Almanack you desired wherein I observe 9'' & &""* will be conjunction about
the beginning of March & both far enough from "" to be seen in the mornings
if cleere. Cosin Jaye labours under that evill direction you mentioned &
so much of it yet to come that I fear she will never recover it all meanes used
have hitherto been ineffectual, she is extremly swelled and now cannot rise, &
sits up in her bed but little, some little hope is left, yet is she when the extremity
of her paines are over pretty hearty, though worn to skin & bone. Our
other relations here are well & hope you are all so, my love to you all, and
prayers for your temporal & eternal happines I am

your very lo: father

Sa: Jeake
Jan 1 1684/5

Several remember to you which I omit to mention.

For Mr Sam: Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	209		For Mr Sam: Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex		1685	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_184	ESRO FRE 5194	[184] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 13 January 168415. Original letter.	201	Sa: Jeake	Lov: Son	your truly lo: father		January 13 1684/5			"Lov: Son
Your present in the box came safe to hand and thanks from Cosin Jaye & my
selfe are hereby returned to you & your wife for the same, but would not have
you charge your self with the like for the future. Our Remembrance also tc
your mother and he desired me to write you that he had sent her the Accompt
which he hoped she had received. I suppose you received the Almanack I sent
you that week your box came up. She Cosin Jaye was so ill she could take
none of the good things you sent. She still continues alive but cannot so much
as sit up in her bed, nor lye but on one side and that with paine because
excoriated and forced to be plaistered. Other Relations here are well, Cosin
Freebody is in Towne he came up last Friday. The Lord bless and prosper you
and yours is the daily desire of

your truly lo: father

Sa: Jeake
January 13 1684/5

To Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye Sussex. These post paid"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	179		To Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye Sussex. These post paid		1685	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_185	ESRO FRE 5195	[185] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 22 January 1684/5. Original letter.	202	Miller			"London the 22"" Jan 1684/5"			"» Mistletoe had a variety of medicinal uses. G. Hatfield, Encyclopedia of Folk Medicine: Old
World and New World Traditions (Santa Barbara, 2003), pp. 23940.
"	"London the 22"" Jan 1684/5
Mr Sa: Jeake
Sir After my kind love & respects to you presented & to your good wife &
Mother these may advise you that I have receved your Mothers letter & I have
been this day at Mr Lukes his Chamber and find he is not yet com to Towne,
so that I will goe to him againe next weeke & will do all your Mother desires
me; I am glad the Coate sent doth like her; Sir I have just now receved your of
this 19"" Instant & am very glad to heare of your welfare; and do give you
many thankes for your proposition Concerning the Negotiating of Forraine
Bills which I am very redy to Imbrace; but at presant my moneys is out of my
hands as well as yours; but I will indevor to call it in; & as I can get it in I shall
very redily complye with your desire; I have you know £250 owing at Rye
which I have Called in but cannot get it I do intend to write to write to them
againe & order them to paye it to you; that is my Cousan Curteis his £100 &
Mr Wilmshurst his £150 which will make a stocke of £500 which will be enufe
to begine with I have also £50 in Tho: Longlys hands which I will call in; if we
do goe one in this busines we must if we can get 10s per £100 for returnes of
noneys downe & that will helpe for the lose of time & port of letters; & all
bills you do dra heare one me to be draen at 4. or 6. dayes sight; we may consider
more heare after; Sir your Father is well to whom I delivered your letter,
& he remembers him to you & your wife & Mother, & little one; & saith he
hath receved £6 of Mr Scot & desires to know your order conserning it;
Mr Jeake I am desired by a friend heare to get him 2 or 3. hands full of
Misseltoe"" that growes upon an Oake; & I could thinke of none fitter to get
it then Tho: Shoesmith, I praye therefore desire him to do me that favour &
to send it me up per Carrier; I would have stackes and leaves together & he
must be sure he hath it for an Oake for other will not do, for it is for a
medisine. All friends heare are well but Mrs Jaye & he [sic] is very bade. Heare
inclosed is a letter to Cos: Curteis to paye you that £10[0] which if he do you
may begine; I have not else needful but am Sr you[r] [section damaged] Tho:
Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Jun Merchant in Rye in Sussex"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	478	Mr Sa: Jeake	To Mr Samuel Jeake Jun Merchant in Rye in Sussex		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_186	ESRO FRE 5196	[186] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 29 January 1684/5. Original letter.	203	Tho: Miller		"Sir Yours to Command
Sr Praye seale these letters. Tell Cos: Curteis I receved his letter & thanke thim
& expect he should be as good as his word."	"London the 29"" Jan 1684"				"London the 29"" Jan 1684
Mr Sa: Jeake
Sr Yours of this 26"" Instant is receved; and take notes you are minded to
proseed in the bussines of Bills with which I do agree, but feare it may be sum
time before I shall get my monys In, but in order there unto I written to divers
& heare inclosed I do make bould to send to you for conveyance to the partes;
one is to Tho: Longly who oweth me £50 & 1 yeers Interest due the 9"" of
January the other is to W Backer for £40 & 1 yeers Interest due the 1* Nov:
last, the other is to Capt Eve for £150 & 1 yeers interest due the 10"" of May
next; I have desired the two first named to paye it in to you with all speed;
praye therefore if they be in Towne a satterday deliver the letters to them your
selfe & aske them whether they will paye it to you at Rye or me heare & when
they will pay it for if they will pay it to you I must send you downe the bonds;
I have receved a letter from Cos: Curteis in which he doth promise to paye you
sum money very suddenly & doth mention £50 let it be more or less take it, I
have written also to Mr Wilmshurst about his mony but know not wheather
he will paye it heare or at Rye when I know I shall advise you; but we must
begine as you say with a little as monys coms in. I do approve of 2 Bills if you
can bring them to it; I thanke you for speaking to Tho: Shosmith but se it
cannot be had I have acquainted your Father of what you say about your
monys; he is well & remembers him to you & wife & Mother & little one;
praye desire my Cos: Curteis to secure the £10 Jacob Scarvil oweth him upon
bond; by getting sum goods into his hands if he can; I have nothing more at
present but my hearty love to you & your wife presented Committing you to
the Lord, I rest
Sir Yours to Command
Tho: Miller

Sr Praye seale these letters. Tell Cos: Curteis I receved his letter & thanke thim
& expect he should be as good as his word.

To Mr Sam Jeake in Rye"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	408	Mr Sa: Jeake	To Mr Sam Jeake in Rye		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_187	ESRO FRE 5197	[187] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 10 February 168415. Original letter.	204	Sa: Jeake	Lov: Son	"your ever lo: Father
When you happen with oppertunity of sending without charge send up my
Cosin Jayes bond that he gave on the marriage, it did lye in the box next the
little Table towards the window together with Br Keys will & Inventory &c
Cosin Jaye remembers to you all."		"oO"" February 10"" 1684/5"		"2! Monday.
2 Friday.
* James, Duke of York who was proclaimed James II on 6 February 1685.
* Tuesday."	"Lov: Son
The seizing of the late King with an Apoplexy on )""' Febr 2 and his death on
Q* 6 instant, & the proclaiming of the D of Y in the afternoon here, I
suppose is no news to you, but the following I suppose may be news your
Cosin Mary Jaye yesternight about 12° a clock finished her course and fell
asleep, had her senses to the last though falltred in her speech. I hope you
need not be sorry for her as one without hope, for in the morning yesterday
being asked how it stood with her soule & if she held fast her hope to the end
she answered yes. And about 10 the last night when her speech was not articulate
being asked by another whether she had any sense of the love of God
upon her heart & desired if she had she would hold up her hand as a signe
though she could not speake & she forthwith held up her hand. Her paines
were great in her sickness, but her death was easy. The Lord fits us all for our
change, other Relations here are well and hope the same of you and yours
which shall be glad to heare when occasion serves. With kind you [sic] to you
all I remain

your ever lo: Father

Sa: Jeake
oO"" February 10"" 1684/5

When you happen with oppertunity of sending without charge send up my
Cosin Jayes bond that he gave on the marriage, it did lye in the box next the
little Table towards the window together with Br Keys will & Inventory &c
Cosin Jaye remembers to you all.

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	286		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1685	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_188	ESRO FRE 5198	[188] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 12 February 1684/5. Original letter.	205	Tho: Miller		"Sir Yours to Command
I write this post to Cos: Curteis to paye you."	"London the 12"" Feb 1684/5"			*Nathaniel Hartshorne.	"London the 12"" Feb 1684/5

Mr Sa: Jeake
Sir Yours of this 9"" Instant is before me & I thanke you for your Care in
delivering my letters, I have receved a letter from Tho: Longley who talkes of
sending up his hopps to paye me heare; & the contents of the Inclosed you
sent me from Mr Backer is that about a munth hence he will paye me £20 &
the full of the intrest due; & desires longer time for the rest; so that I find
moneys will com in very slowly; I have not heard from Capt: Eve; I have
teceved & paid the bill of £11 5s you charged upon me; & placed to your
Account; I do not send you the book you write for this week but may do it
heare after, for I thinke best to rest a little while; therefore I desire you not to
drae upon me any more bills till I give you order, but I praye contine your
indevers to get all my moneys of Cos: Curteis & Imploye it that waye; if your
moneys coms in before mine, if you do any thing upon your owne account I
am ready to serve you heare to my power but for my part I can not, till I can
get my moneys & when that will be I see is very unsertaine; I delivered your
letter to your Father who is well but Mrs Jaye is buried this daye; pray tell
your Mother I receved her letter & according to my promise I went the next
daye to Mr Lukes Chamber but he was not within & since I have not been
with him for he is very unsertaine to be found & besides the Kings death I
believe hath put a stope to the Generall pardon; but there is expected an Acte
of Grace from this K & it is like he** may have benefite by that but if the
generall pardon did goe one & was signed by the late King I beleve her son is
inserted for Mr Luke promised me it should be done & I beleve he durst not
omit it; so that what money had been given him had been lost for I am of your
mind there is noe fees due to him; I have not else need full but my hearty love
Sir Yours to Command

Tho: Miller

I write this post to Cos: Curteis to paye you.

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye in Sussex"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	425	Mr Sa: Jeake	To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye in Sussex		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_189	ESRO FRE 5199	[189] John Jaye to Samuel Jeake junior, 18 February 1684/5. Original letter.	206	Cosin Jn° Jaye Junior	Loving Cousin	I rest your oblidged Loving	"London February 18"" 1684"			"**Tt was typical to distribute mourning tokens, such as scarves, rings or gloves, to be worn in
remembrance; K. Thomas, The Ends of Life: Roads to Fulfilment in Early Modern England
(Oxford, 2009), 244."	"London February 18"" 1684
Loving Cousin
Sir I understand by my uncle you have heard of the Lords takeing my Dear &
Loving wife to himself after her long & painfull sickness, the Lord help me to
hear his voyce in it and learnd me Instruction by this as well as former
Corrections. I have sent you, and Cosins your wife and Mother, each a pair of
Gloves which I desire your acceptance of, I have alsoe sent a pair for Brother
& Sister Holt, and for Brother and Sister Chiswell, which I would desire you
to send to them."" Cosin I have one thing to acquaint you with which is that
last Michaelmas Terme, I and my wife Raised a fine in Westminster Hall upon
the house att Rye [word struck out] whereby it was settled upon the longer
liver of us and Heires, so against my Dear wives decease it is fallen to me. Sir
my request to you and Cosin Hartshorne upon this is to Intreat you to look
after it a little for me and what you see to be needfull to be done to it, to gett
done if Goodman Gowin cannot disburse the money if you please to do it for
me I shall thankfully so pay you againe and if you can have a Chapman to
buy it I would sell it, being I am att so great a distance from it and the concerne
that great I hope you will decrease this trouble and if I can any wayes
serve you or yours in my station you may assure your self none shall be more
ready, I Returne you and Cosin your wife and mother, my hearty thankes for
all your expressions and Manifestations of Love to my poor Dear wife and
my self, and shall be glad to see you all in London, which when any of you
come I hope you will make my house your quarters where you or any of my
wives relations shall be really Wellcome which with my service to Cosin
Hartshorne your self and wife

I rest your oblidged Loving

Cosin Jn° Jaye Junior

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior In Rye Sussex with a brown paper parcel, caridge
paid"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	374		"To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior In Rye Sussex with a brown paper parcel, caridge
paid"		1685	JOHN JAYE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN JAYE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_190	ESRO FRE 5200	[190] Mark Chiswell to Samuel Jeake junior, 21 March 1684/5. Original letter.	207	Mark Chiswell	Sir		London March 1684/5 the 21 day				"Sir
My kind respects to you this is to searteyffey you that my vessell is in the carpenters
hands and I hope by the Later end of the next weeke shee will be
prittey well fineshed and then I think I shall goe For newcastell I shall want
ahole stock which will be about twenty fower pounds Sir if you please to lett
me have it heare according as I just to have it I shall give you maney thanks, I
Remain wishing you well but desiering to hear from you the first oportunetey,
If you derect youer letter to my Brother Mackley house I shall call there for
it. 1 Rest your Loving friend

Mark Chiswell
London March 1684/5 the 21 day

This For Mr Samuel Jeake Living in Rye in Sussex"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	133		This For Mr Samuel Jeake Living in Rye in Sussex		1685	MARK CHISWELL	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""MARK CHISWELL"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_191	ESRO FRE 5201	[191] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 25 March 1685. Original letter.	207	Sa: Jeake	Lo: son	"Your truly lo: Father
I am glad to heare by Mr Markwick your little one thrives so well, & that you
are all in health."		"March 25"" 1685"		"""Autopsies were an unusual occurrence in seventeenthcentury
England and John Jaye's
willingness to allow his wife to be 'opened' might be read as a deferral to the 'apparent objectivity
and expertise of the medical profession in determining the cause of death'. Wear, Knowledge and
Practice, 148.
*Writing on Jean Baptiste Morin, a French astrologer. A manuscript preserved in the Rye
Museum Archives appears to be work by Samuel junior following Morinus's principles. This
manuscript was begun in May 1695 and worked on until 1698. RMA, Selmes, RYEYT: N39.56.1"	"March 25"" 1685

Lo: son

My last to you Febr: 10"" acquainted you of the death of Cosin Mary touching
which I have nothing more to write but that after my Letter was wrot Cosin
Jaye had her opened & found besides about 2. Gallons of water in her belly, a
Mola or lumpe of unshaped flesh in her wombe of great bigness."" Since mine
to you I have received two from you the first inclosing your Encomium on
Morinus,"" And to be returning your kindness I have herewith sent you a sheet
of Scripture instances of Rhetorical Tropes & Figures the most pertinent I
could call to mind in so short a time as I have been about it, the unevenness
of the lines you must beare with for I have neither Ruler nor Compasses. Your
other Letter inclosed the Bond I sent for which I had by Mark Chiswell by
which I was glad to heare you are all in health, and hope you are still so. Your
Bill for the six pounds I received for you of Mr Scot I have paid March 2d
instant. On the 21"" February last I removed my quarters and am at Cosin
Mackleys. Since the writing above, I received your Letter by Mr Markwick &
therein your Receipt for the six pounds of Mr Scot but yet have not seen him
since. I hope this Burgessing time"" Mr Wares will pay off the money on the
mortgage if you mind him of it. I can write you no good news & ill is not
worth sending. The Good Lord bless & preserve you & yours and keepe you
unto his heavenly kingdom, my love & respects to you all as if named, that
still am

Your truly lo: Father

Sa: Jeake

I am glad to heare by Mr Markwick your little one thrives so well, & that you
are all in health.

To Mr Sa: Jeake in Rye these"	The death of Mary Jaye, 1684-1685	ENGLISH	328		To Mr Sa: Jeake in Rye these		1685	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_192	ESRO FRE 5202	[192] John Mackley to Samuel Jeake junior, 28 March 1685. Original letter.	208	John Mackley	Lo Cousin	"Your ever Lo Cousin to Command
Youer father hath not bein well some tim of a could but we hope it is agoing
away againe."	"London March the 28"" 1685"			Probably a reference to elections to the appointed time for elections to local political office.	"London March the 28"" 1685
Lo Cousin

After my kind love with my wives to youer good selfe and wife hoping youer
health as blessed be the Lord we are att present. Lo Cousin [word struck out]
the Cause of writing to you now is to Disier you if you cane to spare me £25
while Christmas nex which then you shall have it a gaine it will Due mea
kindness if you will spare it me so Disiering to hear frome you I rest
Your ever Lo Cousin to Command
John Mackley

Youer father hath not bein well some tim of a could but we hope it is agoing
away againe.

To Mr Sam: Jeake: Marchant in Rye Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	120		To Mr Sam: Jeake: Marchant in Rye Sussex		1685	JOHN MACKLEY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN MACKLEY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_193	ESRO FRE 5204	[193] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 30 March 1685. Original letter.	209	Tho Miller		"Sir Yours Tho Miller
Receved the 24"" March 1684 of Mr Sa: Jeake Junior forty 48s
eight shillings which he receved for me of William Backer
Isay receved per me"	"London the 30"" March 1685"				"London the 30"" March 1685
Mr Sa: Jeake Junior
Sr Heare inclosed I do send you Mr Markwicks receipt for £47 which he hath
receved of me heare which I praye imploye upon bills & all you can get of my
Cousan Curteis & Mr Backer. I thanke you for what you have gotton; Heare
inclosed I do send you Thomas Longly his bond of £50 upon which is due for
Intrest to the 17"" March 84 is 1 yeere 9 weeke at 5 per % is 59s 6d then I paid
for waying & wharfage of his hopps 6s 7d and spent in selling & post of letters
17d makes 8s & paid since I write to Mr Longley 18s to Rob Barthelmew
fraight so that all Charges upon his hopps is 26s besides what he pleaseth to
allow me for selling of them which I leave to him; so that my prissiple &
Intrest upon the bond is £52 19s & 26d paid in Charges upon his hopps is £54:
5s: 6d and his hopps com to £52: Is: Od & have receved so there rest due to me
£2: 4s: 6d besides what he will allow me for my paines; I praye deliver him this
letter & bond he paying you this 44s 6d due to me & what more he pleases for
Ileave it to him and so I do write him word; when receved advise me what he
hath paid you; underneath I do send you a receipt for the 48s you receved of
Mr Backer for me; if you can get the £40 of Mr Backer doe but the £20 he
promises do not refuse; praye be earnest with Cos: Curteis for more monys I
intend to write to him; praye desire him to secure the £10 due by Jacob Scarvil
in mony or goods I desired him so to do long agoe & I hope he hath for he
write me word as if he had praye aske him what he hath done in it & advise
me in your next. Your good father & all friends heare are well blessed be God
& remember them to you & all friends with you. I have no more but am
Sir Yours Tho Miller

Receved the 24"" March 1684 of Mr Sa: Jeake Junior forty 48s
eight shillings which he receved for me of William Backer
Isay receved per me

Tho Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior In Rye in Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	417	Mr Sa: Jeake Junior	To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior In Rye in Sussex		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_194	ESRO FRE 5206	[194] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 21 May 1685. Original letter.	210	Sa Jeake Junior	My dear wife	Your Ever Lo: husband	"London May .21"". 1685"			"*Titus Oates, fabricator of the Popish Plot which alleged a Jesuit plan to assassinate Charles II.
He was eventually convicted of perjury and sentenced to be imprisoned for life. Prior to the
commencement of that sentence he was pilloried in Palace Yard Westminster on 19 May 1685,
whipped at the cart's tail from Aldgate to Newgate on 20 May and then from Newgate to Tybum
on 22 May. Alan Marshall, 'Oates, Titus (16491705)
, ODNB."	"London May .21"". 1685
My dear wife
This is only to give you an account of our Travells & that now through mercy
we are come safe to London, on Monday last about 1. a clock we got to
Tenterden, & by that time we came thither Mr Naldread was quite tired, &
could go no farther a foot, he had a little fit of an ague and feaver that afternoon,
next day because he would go no farther on foot we hired horses to
Maidstone & there coming very opportunely for the Tide it being very fair
weather within an houre after we came to Maidstone we went down the River
to Rochester, & then it being 6 a Clock afternoon & a fine evening we walked
on foot to Gravesend where we lodged on Tuesday night & next morning the
tide fitting at 7a Clock & very calme we came thence in the Tiltboat & landed
at London a little after noon, but Mr Naldread had another fit of an ague in
the boat & was ill all day yesterday. But this day he is fine & well & walks out
again. I found my father and mother & all friends here well. My Mother has
not yet got your Brother out of prison. She is now gone about it I hear with
Cosin Jaye, who is very serviceable to her I perceive therein. Pray let me hear
from you & how little Betty does, her Grandfather & Grandmother enquire
much after her & are pleased to hear she thrives so well have a care of her. The
Parliament met on Tuesday last but tis said the King has not made his speech
to them as yet, so I cannot send it you. Yesterday Oates was whipped at the
Carts taile from Aldgate to Newgate."" This being all at present but my
affections to you & respects to friends I remaine
Your Ever Lo: husband
Sa Jeake Junior

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	338		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1685	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_195	ESRO FRE 5207	[195] Elizabeth Jeake to Samuel Jeake junior, 26 May 1685. Original letter.	211	Elisabeth Jeake	Dearest	affectionate wife	"Rye May the 26"" 1685"				"Rye May the 26"" 1685

Dearest
I received both the letter & the speech I am glad to hear that you are safe arrived
at your Journeys end I hope Mr Naldreds illness by this time is worn off My Dear
Imuch bemoan the loss of thy good company but my comfort is the greatest part
of your abscence is expired. Little betty continues very well her coat is to little I
designe to send it up a saturday to be made bigger I would desire you to buy me
a needle book I am in hopes my mother will have finished her business by that
time you be ready that she may come home with you pray remember to buy besse
acoach or waggon my Dear remember my Duty to mother & Father with my
Dear love to thy self and service to others as you see occasion. Dearest thy

affectionate wife

Elisabeth Jeake

To Mr Samuel Jeake at the Golden Lion in Fenchurch Street in London"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	168		To Mr Samuel Jeake at the Golden Lion in Fenchurch Street in London		1685	ELIZABETH JEAKE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	1667	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_196	ESRO FRE 5208	[196] John Jaye to Samuel Jeake junior, 11 June 1685. Original letter.	211	Jn° Jaye Junior	Loving Cosin	"I Close your
Real Lo: Cosin to Command"	"London June 11"" 1685"			"""Lord Chief Justice."	"London June 11"" 1685

Loving Cosin
Yours of the 2d Instant I received, and was glad to hear of your safe getting
home, as for the Capps you Mention I have inquired about them, but as yet I
cannot find them but if they should come to my hand, will convey them to you.
Be please to acquaint my Cosin your Mother that I was with younger Benson
this Morning, and I believe in a few weeks her sonn will be transported, for he
told me, the Merchant hath binne once or twice with the L. C. J."" who was so
full of business he could not be spoken withall but he intends in a few days to
Give in bail, as any thing further doth offer in that I shall acquaint her with it.
I did see my uncle yesterday who was very well. My Aunt was with me this
Morning and is likewise and desires to be remembered to your self wife &
Mother, which with my service to you my Cos: your Mother, self and wife

I Close your

Real Lo: Cosin to Command

Jn° Jaye Junior

To Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	197		To Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1685	JOHN JAYE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JOHN JAYE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_197	ESRO FRE 5209	[197] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 27 June 1685. Original letter.	212	Tho: Miller	Lov: Friend Mr Jeake	Sir Yours	"London the 27"" June 1685"				"London the 27"" June 1685

Lov: Friend Mr Jeake
Sir These may advise you that I have receved the letter & box sent per Carrier
& shall follow your directions as sone as I se Mr Scot; I have receved of him
for you £6 & placed it to your account. I thanke you for what you have done
for me. The [£]7 you receved of Mr Waylet is placed to your Debt; Your Father
& [all] friends heare are well; If Mr Frebody pay me any money [for] you I will
advise you; Sir These may advise you that Jonathan Everard is brock & hath
given me a Cheat for 1200 Gin bills Paris & Rouen, which is a very great lose
to me, The Lord sanctifie it to me; pray beware of his bills & advise Mr
Freebody of it. I would not advise you to meddle with any bills now for no
man knows who are good & who are not; get what moneys in you can for me
for this will put me to a great none pluse for mony for they will drae upon me
from Morlaix for this mony I have paid already praye mind Cos: Curteis & se
if you can get that mony & Mr Backer praye desire Mr Smith to mind Mr
Tutt & get that £8 for me. I have not else but my respects to you wife & your
Mother & all friends with you I rest

Sir Yours

Tho: Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior these at Rye in Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	262		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior these at Rye in Sussex		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_198	ESRO FRE 5210	[198] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 4 August 1685. Original letter.	212	Tho: Miller		Sir Your Loy: Friend	"London the 4"" Aug 1685"				"Mr Sa: Jeake Junior

London the 4"" Aug 1685
Sir Yours of this 1"" Instant I have receved & the bill of £46 5s upon Mr
Sneath Junior I have presented & it is accepted and when due shall receve it
for you; I did receve yours of the 29"" of June last & followed your order there
in & did send you the 10"" of July per Carrier your two bonds canseled; which
I do wonder you have not receved the Carrier Moon his sone did promise me
to deliver it to you at Mr Foules they were sent you unsealed & being in hast
I did write to you a letter one the Cleane side of one of the bonds in which I
did advise you I had delivered the writings you sent to Mr Scot in the presence
of your Father who was very well yesterday; I receved also of Mr Scot for you
6s for intrest & 10s for your charges & have placed it to your account. I have
receved the £20 upon the noate you sent me from Mr Backer & have made it
receved upon his bond of which please to advise him; I se you have receved £5
of Cos: Naldred who is at present heare. Mr Freebody hath not yet paid me
any money for you but writes me he will suddenly; I praye if you have not yet
receved the two bonds I sent you inquire of Moon for them & if you have
them advise me & looke on the cleane side of one of them & you will find my
letter to you to the purpose above mentioned; I desired you there in to be
earnest with Cos: Curteis for more monys which is my request to you at this
time; having more then ordinary occasion of monys at present being drane
upon for the moneys I formerly paid to Everard; which I hope Cos: Curteis
will consider & paye me all he oweth me or a great part thereof it will com
very reasonably; I heare no less the 4. of the Callis Merchants are brocke
which was the occasion of Everards failing; all friends heare thro mercy are
well. My respects to you & your good wife presented & to all friends with you
I rest

Sir Your Loy: Friend

Tho: Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	405	Mr Sa: Jeake Junior	To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_199	ESRO FRE 5213	[199] Thomas Miller to Barbara Hartshorne and Samuel Jeake junior, 22 August 1685. One original letter.	213	"Tho: Miller
Tho: Miller"	Madam Hartshorne	"Madam Yours to Command
Sir Your ever Lov: Friend"	"London the 22th Aug 1685
 London the 22th Aug 1685"				"London the 22th Aug 1685

Madam Hartshorne
Yours of this 20"" Instant is receved & for answer what advise I can give your
son Holman shall not be wanting & what moneys he desires upon your
account he shall have when he calls upon me but as yet I have not seen nor
heard of him till I receved your letter, which with my love to you presented I
rest

Madam Yours to Command

Tho: Miller
Mr Sa: Jeake junior
London the 22th Aug 1685
Sir Yours of this 20"" Instant I have receved & am glad to heare of your good
health & of your wifes; I se you have receved 44s: 6d of Tho: Longly & £13 of
my Brother Edward, for which I thanke you; I have not receved any money of
Mr Freebody yet but I would not have you to put your selfe to the truble of
getting a bill for as yet I do not want the moneys. I hope my Cousan Curteis
will pay you sum suddenly & then you may remit it together pray mind him as
you have occasion & you will oblidge me, your Father is very well & all friends
heare thro mercy; I hope you did receve the two bonds I sent you per Carrier.
I have not else but commit you to the Lord & rest
Sir Your ever Lov: Friend
Tho: Miller

To Mrs Barbara Hartshorne in Rye in Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	244	Mr Sa: Jeake junior	To Mrs Barbara Hartshorne in Rye in Sussex		1685	THOMAS MILLER	BARBARA HARTSHORNE AND SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MULT	1644	1640-1680	MULT	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	MULT	MULT	TRUE	MULT		UNK	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE AND SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_200	ESRO FRE 5214	[200] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 9 September 1685. Original letter.	214	Tho: Miller		Sir Your Lov: Friend	"London the 9"" Sept 1685"				"London the 9"" Sept 1685
Sir My respects to you presented; these are to advise you that yesterday I
receved of Mr Ric: Freebody for your account £30 ster: which I have placed
to your Credit; I shall be mindfull of your bill when due upon Mr Snel; pray
advise your Mother I did furnish her son Holman with £9 ster: for which I
have his receipt; your Father and all friends heare are well thro mercy. Mr
Grace presents his respects to you & desires you at your lashur to walke over
to Mr Longleys & se how things are there & give him an account in your next
to me: I suppose he meanes what Crope of Corne & hopps he hath this yeare;
he presents his love to Mr Longley & his wife; which is all needful at present.
I rest
Sir Your Lov: Friend
Tho: Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	158		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye Sussex		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_201	ESRO FRE 5215	[201] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 19 September 1685. Original letter.	214	Sa: Jeake	Lov: son	Your lo: father		"Sept 19"" 1685"			"Lov: son

Yours of the 22th of June, & your other by Cosin Freebody received and
thereby was well satisfied to heare both you & yours well as then enjoying
your health but now Mr Miller acquaints me your self & little one are both ill
at which I am not a little concerned but comfort myself with hopes that yours
will not exceed 2. or .3. fits of an Ague, and little Bettys fits may be over if
then return not again which will be your care to prevent if it may be. I desire
I may hear how it fares with you both by the next you may divert your Letter
to Cosin Mackley, that accordingly addresses my be made to the Great
Physician or praises returned as the case requires. Through mercy I am in
health & Relations here are the same except Cosin Freebody who hath been
ill of a fever this week yet I hope may do well, but you need not mention it for
I think he hath not sent his wife word yet. The God of mercy bless you all
with spiritual blessings in heavenly things in Christ, and heal your sicknesses
& take away your sins, be neer you in what you want & call unto him for. With
my love to you, your wife, mother, and child. I remaine
Your lo: father
Sa: Jeake
Sept 19"" 1685

To Mr Sam Jeake junior in Rye Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	244		To Mr Sam Jeake junior in Rye Sussex		1685	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_202	ESRO FRE 5217	[202] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 29 September 1685. Original letter.	215	Tho: Miller		Sir Yours to Command	"London the 29"" Sept 1685"			"* Possibly Eltham in Kent.
 Possibly Brede, which is around 4 miles west of Rye."	"Mr Sam Jeake Junior

London the 29"" Sept 1685

Sir All yours to the 24"" Instant is receved & I do give you many thanks for
your paines in going to Mr Longley's house & for the account you give I will
acquaint Mr Grace with it when he com's to Towne he is yet at Eltum;"" I am
glad to heare you have lost your ague & that your Child is better then it was;
your good Father thro mercy is well & all friends heare only Sa: Freebody is
ill; These may advise you that I have paid to Mr Jaye £30 as you ordred me.
I have receved for you of Mr Scot £21 ster: & this daye I have receved your
bill of £46 Ss upon Mr Sim: Snell; both of which sumes I have placed to your
Credit; heare inclosed is a letter to Mr Horne of Bread which I praye send
him by a safe hand; it is to call in £100 my Brother John hath in his hands
upon bond & I have ordred him if he please he may paye it to you the 9"" Oct
next which ends the halfe yeare if he do be pleased to receve it & I will send
you the bond, there is 50s due for Intrest; I do write this post very earnestly
to Cos: Curteis for to paye you the full bond & Intrest; and advised him I
owe you above £50 which must be paid speedily & have desired him to do it;
& if he have not mony to take up money for I can not stay any longer; I pray
be pleased to mind him of it & let him know how that it is very pregidishall
to me; I pray do me this favor to get this money of Cos: Curteis & you will
very much oblidge me; for he doth not deale well with me. I have ordred Mr
Edw: Wilmshurst to paye you £5 that is due for intrest of £100 there is now
due 1 4 yeare the 1"" of Sept 85 at which time I desired him to paye in
principle & Intrest to you but I heare nothing from him doth cause me to
desire you to speake to him & know what he doth intend to doe; & advise me;
your money in my hands is at your disspose when you will; in your next send
Mr Scot a receipt for this £21 & then I will take in mine. I am glad to heare
my uncle Shinner is upon Recovery the Lord continue it; I not else needful
but am
Sir Yours to Command
Tho: Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	462	Mr Sam Jeake Junior	To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_203	ESRO FRE 5218	[203] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 15 October 1685. Original letter.	216	Tho: Miller		"Sir Yours to Command
Pray advise me of the receipt of this letter per next post."	"London the 15"" October 1685"				"London the 15"" October 1685
Mr Sa: Jeake

Sr Both yours of this 6"" & 13"" Instant I have receved & thanke you for
sending my letter to Mr Home who hath sent me word he will paye you the
hundred pounds with Interest the 9° of Nov: next if not before, & therefore I
do send you the bond & desire you to receive it for me there will be due for
Interest the 9'"" Nov: just 7 munths; I have not seen Mr Grace since I receved
yours I will acquaint him with what you write Tomorrow & will send you his
answer; I se you have receved £5 of Mr Wilmshurst and that he will paye in
the principle next March praye desire him not to faile of it then; I thank you
for speaking to Cos: Curteis I pray follow him & get if possible these two
payments he hath promised you & I shall be obliged to you for it will do me
great pleasure at this time; I will speake to Mr Wildeman to send you your
watch per Carrier; I do send to Abr: Wildes a letter this post & in it on for you
from your Father; I do mind all you write about Nat: and am willing to do
him & your Mother all the servis I can but as to what she desires I can not get
it done for Mr Monck his friends there have formerly refused to do it, & I
cannot desire Mr Monck to desire it a second time & I know none else that
deales there. Mr Jaye tells me the best waye will be to do it by the Carrier that
lives next door to the prison, & he & I have agreed next Tuesdaye to goe to the
Carrier & talke with him about it, I will send him shose & stockens as you
desire next week & 10d for his washer woman per Carrier; Mr Jaye tells me
Mr Benson is coming up to Towne in order to get him transported; what is
done in it Mr Jaye will advise you when he heares; your good Father with all
friends heare are thro mercy in good health. I am sory for your Childs Illnes
but I hope it will pas over; I have not else but my kind love with my Brothers
presented to you & all friends with you; I do not heare Mr Longly hath been
yet in Towne if you se him be pleased to tell him his Land Lord is well &
expects to se him heare very spedily or to heare from him at least for it is time;
I Commit you to the Lord & rest
Sir Yours to Command
Tho: Miller

Pray advise me of the receipt of this letter per next post.

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	487	Mr Sa: Jeake	To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_204	ESRO FRE 5219	[204] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 15 October 1685. Original letter.	217	Sa: Jeake	Lov: son	your lo: father		Oct 15 1685		"*Venice treacle was composed principally of honey and made with numerous other ingredients.
It was used as a cheap remedy for a variety of ills. DTGC, 'Valencia almond - Vermilion'
* Tuesday."	"Lov: son
Abraham Wilde when he was here in Town acquainted me that the money he

had of that given him by his Father while he had purchased a house in the
Lower Street in Rye & settled it on his son, and that you made the writings &
knew it to be true. And that he had now purchased a part of a vessel and was
to pay for it £25 and desired me to give order that so much might be paid him,
but had not the copy of the will so as I could not tell whether by the will he
may have it or no. If the former money he had be laid out for the childs use
upon the house then as I remember his wife might take £20 or what sume I
certainly know not for her necessity but if it be not so, then I know not how
he can have it. For if the money be given absolutely to the son, the Father
cannot take it without he give Security to pay it againe, and whether he can
get security I know not. I desire you would consult the will, And if it may be
done to let him have it. I sent you by Mr Kirby a pot of Venice Treacle* which
your Aunt gave me to send you. She & your cosin Sa: Goph remember their
kind love to you, Last GO» in the afternoon his wife was safely delivered of a
son. Cosin Mackley is not yet brought a bed. Cosin Freebody this week hath
taken his son down into the countrey again. We are all here through mercy in
health. I hope by this little Betty hath lost her Ague, which I should be glad
to heare with my kind love to you all in hast I rest

your lo: father

Sa: Jeake
Oct 15 1685

To Mr Sa: Jeake Jun in Rye"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	325		To Mr Sa: Jeake Jun in Rye		1685	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_205	ESRO FRE 5220	[205] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 22 October 1685. Original letter.	218	Sa: Jeake	Lov Son	Your lo: father		"Oct 22"" 1685"			"Lov Son
Yours of the 17"" instant received and touching Abr: Wilde, if his brother will
let him have £25 let the receipt be made to him as Executor in part of the
legacy but do not you take the receipt to your self nor give any order under
your hand to the Executor or any other to let him have it. If the Executor
thinke not his receipt sufficient to discharge him. Abra: W: may give him his
bond to save him harmless for the payment thereof to him. But if it be as you
writ, the will is cleer enough for £20 that she may have, & if no further clause
direct the disposall thereof to any other Legatees in case of the death of Mary
or her son I see not but they may have £25. I am sorry little Betty keeps her
Ague. The Lord bless preserve & keep you all here & herafter in his fear &
favour. My kind love to your self & all with you, in hast I rest

Your lo: father

Sa: Jeake

Oct 22"" 1685

To Mr Sa Jeake Junior in Rye in Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	194		To Mr Sa Jeake Junior in Rye in Sussex		1685	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_206	ESRO FRE 5223	[206] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 14 November 1685. Original letter.	218	Tho: Miller		Sir Yours	"London the 14"" Nov 1685"				"Mr Sa: Jeake Ju:

London the 14"" Nov 1685
Sir Yours of this 12"" Instant I have receved advising the receiving £52: 18s: 6d
of Mr Horne & that he will paye the rest next munth, for which I thanke you;
I am sorry to heare Cousan Curteis hath not paid you what he promised,
These may advise you I do write to him this post to hasten the payment for I
hoped he had paid you according to his promise, so that if he com not to you
in a little time be pleased to call upon him & you will much oblidge me; as for
Mr Grace he saith he will not buy it; & for your Mothers busines, the letter
sent to Mr Jaye was receved & both of us have done all we can with The
Tailor & he hath promised to do all he can to get him transported & then did
not dout of Effecting it; but since Mr Jaye hath been with his sonne & he tells
him he meets with so much truble in that he feares he shall not be able to do
it, but saith he will do all he can to do it & when done he will advise Mr Jaye
& he you, but nothing being yet done was the reason he nor I did write to her;
which is all I can say in it yet; the things you ordred me to send him I did send
& do com to 21s: 7d which is put to your Debit. The Taylor did tell me that
Nat: was in a good Condition & wanted for nothing no more than he did
before for he did meate with him as formerly & that he wanted nothing but
those things I sent him; heare hath been with me the poore woman that
washed his Linnen & tells me he oweth her 30s for washing and that she hath
not had one penny of him ever since he hath been there I did paye he [sic] but
10s as you ordred me but I do thinke it most just to paye her the full for she is
poore & keept by the parishe & hath no reason to washe his linnen for nothing;
lam informed a great part of her arrant to London was to get this money;
your good Father thro mercy is well & I will tell him what you write; all friends
here are well & remember them to you; I am sorry to heare my uncle Shinner
is still so il I praye remember my love to him; Cos: Naldred desires you to send
him up his cane that is at your house by the first vessell that coms up; which
with my hearty love to you presented I rest

Sir Yours

Tho: Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	486	Mr Sa: Jeake Ju:	To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_207	ESRO FRE 5225	[207] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 5 December 1685. Original letter.	219	Tho: Miller		"Sir Yours to Command
I have receved the Cane you sent by Herly."	"London the 5"" Dee: 1685"				"Mr Sa: Jeake Junior

London the 5"" Dee: 1685
Sir My last to you was the 14 last past in answer to yours of the 12"" past; to
which I refere you since which I have none from you; which doth make me
feare Cos: Curteis hath not yet paid you; I would desire the favor of you to be
very earnest with him to paye you next weeke for I have great occasion for it
& he doth very much disappoint me; I will mind him againe next post & pres
him all I can; Sir I shall owen it as a very singular favour if you could get me
in that debt for Lam very much abused that I cannot have my moneys paid me
when I have so earnest occasion for it as I have at present; I praye mind Mr
Horne that he paye you the other £50 the 9"" Instant according to his promise
for I expect it; I praye also advise Mr W Backer that I expected he should
have paid you the 1"" of Nov: last the other £20 due with Interest for 1 yeare;
and that I now desire it may be paid to you with all speed; or to me heare, if
he will paye it you I will send you the bond; your Good Father is well & all
friends heare only Mr Mackly's sonne John is dead of the small pox; Mr Jaye
tells me now that the Taylor hath been againe in Towne & hath done all he can
to get Natt: Transp[orted] but saith he cannot get it done by no means he can
use; I have paid Mr Jaye for you 48s 6d which is put to your Dr. Sir when you
se Mr Wilmshurst tell him I do expect to have my moneys paid in the first of

March heare at London at which time the yeare is up, I hope you will excuse

this truble if I may be servisable to you heare command me which with my

kind love to your selfe wife & Mother presented and to my Uncle & Aunt

Shinner & tell him the £20 in my hands is at his dispose when he will I rest
Sir Yours to Command
Tho: Miller

I have receved the Cane you sent by Herly.

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	401	Mr Sa: Jeake Junior	To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior at Rye in Sussex		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_208	ESRO FRE 5226	[208] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 22 December 1685. Original letter.	220	Tho: Miller		Sir Your much oblidged Friend	"London the 22"" Dec 1685"			*Dieppe.	"Mr Sa: Jeake Junior
London the 22"" Dec 1685

Sir Yours of the 17"" Instant is receved advising the receipt of £50: 5s of Mr
Horne for which I thanke you; These are to advise you I have written againe
to Cos: Curteis & have been very presing upon him to paye you & I hope he
will paye you I praye be earnest with him & get what you can tho but £10 ata
time; there is a bill of £100 drane upon him from Deep"" payable in London
the 24 or 25"" of January next; soe that I would desire the favor of you to get
all you can of him before that growes due; praye keep it to your selfe; praye
what moneys you have or can receve for me of any body be pleased to remit
it me up as sone as you can for I want it much. I thanke you that you will mind
Wilmshurst & Backer to paye me in there moneys when due as I did writ you;
your good Father & all friends heare are well thro mercy; my kind love with
my Brothers to you & all friends presented. I rest

Sir Your much oblidged Friend

Tho: Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	216	Mr Sa: Jeake Junior	To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_209	ESRO FRE 5227	[209] Thomas Miller and Michael Godfrey to Samuel Jeake junior, 22 December 1685. One original letter.	221	"Tho: Miller
Michael Godfrey"		"Sir Yours to Command
Your affectionate friend toward you"	"London the 22"" Dec 1685"				"Mr Sa: Jeake Junior
London the 22"" Dec 1685
Sir These are only to desire you to follow Mr Michel Godfreys order in payingsum
moneys for him at Rye & who as he shall direct you; & drae upon him
payable to me; which is all needful. I rest
Sir Yours to Command
Tho: Miller

Sir The Inclosed is for Mr W Antony Master of a Smack Vessel called the
Dove of Foy: who was bound for St Mallo, Laden with Herrings, & by
Extremity of Weather was forced up into the Port. The Master has wrote hee
shall want some Repayres to his Rudder & forsayles, & som other Repayrs,
pray doe mee the kindness, to see what hee may want & let him have, as far as
Ten pound, or a small Matter more if you find hee wants it, & wich pay the
bill for what [word illegible] I pay him pray hasten him out the first opportunity
of Weather that presents & if hee requests a Bote to help him out of the
Harbour; Let him have the mony to pay it [word lost] the trust & Command
mee who am

Your affectionate friend toward you

Michael Godfrey

To Mr Samu: Jeake Mercht in Rye"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	209	Mr Sa: Jeake Junior	To Mr Samu: Jeake Mercht in Rye		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_210	ESRO FRE 5230	[210] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 29 December 1685. Original letter.	221			Sir Yours to Command Tho: Miller	"London the 29"" Dec 1685"			7 Fowey in Cornwall.	"Mr Sa: Jeake junior

London the 29"" Dec 1685
Sr Both yours of this 24"" & 26"" Instant are receved & In the former a letter
to your good Father which I carefully delivered him who thro mercy is in
good health; as for the 5s you mention your Cousan now tells me he did
receve it of Tho: Knight but I knew not of it till now & I yet have it not, but
when I have I will pay it you; as for bills I does not se but if you be wary &
take good bills but you may doe well; what servis I can doe you heare in it I
am at your servis & will doe the best I can for you in it at all times; I give you
my hearty thankes for your care in my consernes at Rye. I have receved a letter
latly from Cousan Curteis promising to paye me all in a little time & that I
shall lose nothing by him, but I looke upon it only as a put of to gaine time;
but I cannot staye any longer & so I will write him; & I pray continue your
minding of him & get it as you can, by little & little for I feare I shall never get
it all at a time. In your last letter I receved a bill of £60 upon Mr Hays which
I left at his house this day for acceptance & will call for it in a daye or two &
if accepted I will keep till due as you desire if not I will returne it you per post;
but I suppose noe feare but it will be accepted; as for my moneys in your
hands I desire it may be remitted per bill at sight or a few days & not in a
forraine bill. Your Cos: Freebody tells me his wife will give you a bond of
mine of £10 from Godfrey Cros payable to my Cos. Hacksworth. I praye Sir
receve it of her & doe me the favor when you have occasion or conveniency of
sending to Lidd to write to Mr Cros in my nam & tell him you hav the bond
& that I desire him to paye in the principle & Intrest due to you with all convenient
speed & then give him in his bond; I have som moneys you know in
Capt: Eves hands I have often write to him to paye it me in; but I can have noe
answer from him; if I might not be to trublsom to you I would only desire the
favour of you that when he comes to Towne that you would speake to him for
me to paye it in ether to me in London or you at Rye & know his answer &
advise me; of if he comes not in a short time be pleased to write to him & you
will much oblidge me which is the needfull with my & my Brothers hearty love
to you & your good Lady & Mother & all friends in generall I rest

Sir Yours to Command Tho: Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	545	Mr Sa: Jeake junior	To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1685	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_211	ESRO FRE 5231	[211] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 31 December 1685. Original letter.	222	Sa: Jeake	Loving Son	"Your lo: father
Dr Stacey last time I saw him which was not long ago charged me to remember
him to you. Your Aunt about a week agoe with a fall hurt her leg & is lame &
be sides hath a great cold, yet I hope will do well. The rest are well there."		"Dec 31"" 1685"			"Loving Son

Yours of the 24"" instant I received, and am glad thereby to hear of your
health & the health of your wife & little one, which I pray God to continue
but truly sorry to hear of the unhappy condition of Cosin Freebody which I
feared before but heard thereof but a little before your Letter. His brother
I know was bound for Mrs Grebels money, but not for the other £50 you
mention, as to the case you mention, I will not be so positive but think if 2.
be bound in a bond & one of them dye yet the Executors or Administrators
of the deceased shall stand obliged as well as the Survivor and intend to satisfie
my self fully therein as soon as I can conveniently, & let you know for
Mrs Grebels better satisfaction to whom pray commend me. As to James
Knight I refer the whole matter to you, what you do therein or any other
concern of mine I shall & do accept. Cosin Mackley is well up againe, &
Mary is well recovered of the smalpox but John died thereof the 4"" instant
being taken ill thereof * was a sennight before, Since his death the rest hold
well, but the pox and spotted fever are pretty much amongst the city & suburbs
& what it may prove in the Spring I know not. If you could spare Secrets
revealed,"" I think there was 2 of them send me the worst, & Cottons
Concordance.*' Direct them to Cosin Jays I will call there for them. Spero te
Magistrum Secreti Magni Philosophorum Facere ante Morior.' God
almighty bless you and yours with all Spiritual, temporall & Eternal mercies.
My love to you all and prayers for you that you may stand perfect & compleat
in all the will of God, and be kept faithfuil to his cause & interest. Remember
me to all Relations & Friends with you. I am

Your lo: father

Sa: Jeake

Dec 31"" 1685

Dr Stacey last time I saw him which was not long ago charged me to remember
him to you. Your Aunt about a week agoe with a fall hurt her leg & is lame &
be sides hath a great cold, yet I hope will do well. The rest are well there.

To Mr Samuel Jeake the younger in Rye Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	398		To Mr Samuel Jeake the younger in Rye Sussex		1685	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_212	ESRO FRE 5232	[212] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 5 January 1685/6. Original letter.	223	Tho: Miller	Mr Sa: Jeake Junior	Sir Your ever Loy: Friend	"London the 5"" Jan 1685"			"""Sunday.
* Possibly Secrets reveal'd, or an open entrance to the shutplace
of the king, authorship unclear
but noted in Hunter er al., Radical's Books, 2801,
also referred to in chapter 2, ESRO FRE
4827.
""Clement Cotton, Compleat Concordance (London, 1648), Hunter et al. Radical's Books, 46~7.
""'T hope you will have achieved mastery of the great secret of the philosophers before I die."	"Mr Sa: Jeake Junior

London the 5"" Jan 1685
Sr Yours of this 2d Instant with the Inclosed I have receved & delivered the
Inclosed but have not yet conferred with him about the Contents but I doe
judge it is Mrs Grebells £50 & the Scole £50 if it be so I can tell you he hath
taken care about it & I would not have any words about it, for he will be
honest, the two bills you sent I have receved & am paid one & Mr Godfreys I
shall be paid when I call for it; Your bill of £60 is accepted & I have it bye me;
I thanke you for speaking to Mr Wilmshurst I have not yet heard from him,
but I intend to write to him as you advise me & get part if he cannot paye all;
I am sorry my Cos: Curteis gives you & me so much truble I se noe way but
patience; I hope Mr Backer will be as good as his word; you may defere
writting to Godfrey Cross till further order I have heard from him & he desires
further time. I will speak to Mr Mackley as you desire but I feare he cannot
yet pay it, trade being so very dead & of late he hath had a great Expence by
his wifes Lying in & visitation of his children with the shall [sic] Pox. Your
good Father is well & when I se him shall acquaint him what you say; Sir A
friend of mine in Towne hath occasion of sum mose that growes upon dead
mens scules & bones; & your Father saith he has formerly seen a great deale
at Winchelsea in or neare the Church; These are to desire the favor of you to
speake to Cos: Tho: Shosesmith to goe over & get me all he can & send it me
up per Carrier in a box directed to me & what he will have for his paines paye
him & put to my account let him goe as sone as he can. I have not else but my
kind love with my Brothers to you & your wife Mother & Mrs Freebody
presented tell the latter her husband is well & I have delivered her message to
him who will be carefull I am

Sir Your ever Loy: Friend

Tho: Miller

To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	412		To Mr Samuel Jeake Junior in Rye Sussex		1686	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_213	ESRO FRE 5233	[213] Richard Freebody to Samuel Jeake junior, 7 January 1685/6. Original letter.	224	Rich: Freebody	Loving Cousin	Sir Your affectionate Kinsman		"January 7"" 1685"		"""Moss from a dead man's skull was used for curing bleeding and headaches. Hatfield,
Encyclopedia of Folk Medicine, pp. 2445.
"	"January 7"" 1685
Loving Cousin
Within these few hours I Receved yours which if I had Receved it but one
houre before my uncle should have seen it but he was newly gon from me, But
you may be sure that I doe nothing here without his Advice, who hath seen
both debts & deeds And doth take care for the scooll. And as for Mrs Grebells,
it is sure, my sister being bound, But I think it best to desire her (as yett) not
to Acquaint my sister with it untill I have exchanged A letter with her, As for
Mr Weekes mony I know nothing but you may safely Receive it, And I would
pray you to doe it, And keep it till further order, for I doe not judg it best to
pay it as yett unto Any body, because it will be some disadvantage in my
compostion, I shall write at the beginning of the weeke to Mr Mascale, And
to other creditors, And hope noe blame will fall upon my Cosin Norman, I
have Inclosed a Receipt to my cousin John Freebody And think it best for his
bill to be sent hither that Mr Miller may have it, the money not only being
properly his, but it will be just enuff to make up his debt who is left out of the
Cattiloge of debtors & Creditors for that Reason, my Cordiall Respects unto
your self & Cosin my true love to my wife & Ann, being what at present I
know to be needful. In hast I am

Sir Your affectionate Kinsman

Rich: Freebody

I Receve my wifes dateless letter I presume the same day shee had mine And
leave it to her to discourse with Mr Manooch or any other person about what
household or other consernes as shee thinks fitt. Our friends here are well to
day, but my uncle was not very well yesterday. Mr Naldred goes homeward to
morrow where god will he desires to be next Monday.

To Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	346		To Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye Sussex	"I Receve my wifes dateless letter I presume the same day shee had mine And
leave it to her to discourse with Mr Manooch or any other person about what
household or other consernes as shee thinks fitt. Our friends here are well to
day, but my uncle was not very well yesterday. Mr Naldred goes homeward to
morrow where god will he desires to be next Monday."	1686	RICHARD FREEBODY	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""RICHARD FREEBODY"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_214	ESRO FRE 5234	[214] Samuel Jeake senior to Samuel Jeake junior, 9 January 1685/6. Originat letter.	225	Sa: Jeake		your very lo: father		"Jan 9"" 1685/6"			"Lov: Son
Yours of the 4"""" instant with the 2 Books, I have received & am glad to hear
you are all well. For Mrs Grebels satisfaction I went yesterday to Mr Hurst
and propounded the case to him, who tells me (as I did believe and wrot you
before) that if the parties bound in a bond be bound joyntly and severally
then the creditor if any of the debtors die before payment yet hath the liberty
to Arrest which they will, the Survivor or the Executor or Administrators of
the deceased, but if the bond bind the debtors joyntly (that is if the words
joyntly and severally be not in the bond) then if one dye the survivors must be
sued & the Executors or Administrators of him that dies first is not chargable.
So as I hope Mrs Grebel may be satisfied, and wherein I can be serviceable to
her shall not be backward. Remember me to her & all friends with you. I wish
in your letters you had let me heare how Mr Shinner doth your Aunt is pretty
well again I hear but have not seen her this fortnight. My love to your selfe
Wife & Mother with little Betty. In hast I rest

your very lo: father

Sa: Jeake
Jan 9"" 1685/6

To Mr Samuel Jeake the younger in Rye Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	228		To Mr Samuel Jeake the younger in Rye Sussex		1686	SAMUEL JEAKE SR	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1623	1600-1640	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	29	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE SR"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_215	ESRO FRE 5235	[215] James Wightman to Samuel Jeake junior, 12 January 1685/6. Original letter.	226	James Wightman	Loving Cousin	Your Loving Cosin	London Jan 12 1685/6				"London Jan 12 1685/6

Loving Cousin
Yours I received and intend to send you the quire of bonds by the Carrier on
fryday, as for your Testemony Consarning our Tryall with Lernara I think it
will be necessary and will be the next terme but when the time is fixed I will
endeavour to give you timely notice and a supenia, I am sory I have such dull
partners that they should lett Martell goe before we had his Testimony when
I did write soe earnestly about it, I are afraid we must send for him from
franc or or some other from [Ghent], which will be Great Charge to us, I
shall now write to Mr White about it, and pray Cosin if you see him be pleased
to sturr him up to be diligent, that the bisnes may not miscarye through ther
neglect, this with mine and my wifes Respects to you and our Cosins with my
kind love to sister Freebody and tell her my brother is well and desirs to be
remembred to you all, I Remaine

Your Loving Cosin

James Wightman

To Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	193		To Mr Samuel Jeake in Rye Sussex		1686	JAMES WIGHTMAN	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	UNK	UNK	1652	1640-1680	EXTENDED FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""JAMES WIGHTMAN"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_216	ESRO FRE 5236	[216] Thomas Miller to Samuel Jeake junior, 16 January 1685/6. Original letter.	226	Tho: Miller	Mr Sa: Jeake junior	Sir Yours to Command	"London the 16"" Jan 1685/6"	1685		* France.	"Mr Sa: Jeake junior

London the 16"" Jan 1685/6
Sir Yours of this 12"" instant I have receved & thanke you for writting to Capt:
Eve when you have an answer praye advise me; I se you have receved noe more
moneys for me; the bill of £70 ster: you sent me I have gotten accepted & will
keep till due; as for my moneys in your hands I desire if you can to remit it to
me by bill because I have present want of it, which is the only reason I doe not
accept of your kind offer you make me in your last; I am sorry my Cousan
Curteis doth serve me as he doth for it is greatly to my prejiduce having great
want of my moneys, this being the best time for giving order for goods at
Morlaix & a good time to remit; but I know not how to helpe my selfe. Mr
Wilmshurst money also would be very usefull to me if I could have it but I se
I am like to be disappointed there also. I will write to him, & I would desire
once more the favour of you to speake to him & let him know I have great
need of it & if possible that he would pay me in the full of the bond the 1* of
March but if that cannot be done he must not faile me to paye in halfe with
the intrest of the hole; I have told Mr Jaye I will pay him 41s for your Mother
when he calles for it; underneath is account of the severall payments I have
paid for your Mother which comes to £5: 11s: Old ster: with the 41s I have
promised to paye Mr Jaye; your Father & all friends heare thro mercy are well
in health. I have receved the 40s 6d of Mr Godfrey. I have not else at present
only the Ld de Lainer is found not guilty by his peares. My kind love to you
and all friends with you presented together with my Brothers I rest

Sir Yours to Command

Tho: Miller
1685

Oct 22th To things sent Nat OIl
- 3
24 To 10 paid Mr Bats 010
- 0

24 To 4d to a porter to
Carry Natts things OO0
- 4
N{ovember] 28"" To Mr Jaye 208
- 6
To Mr Jaye 2O1
- 0
5Ill
- 1

To Mr Samuel Jeake junior in Rye Sussex"	Managing legal matters, 1685-1686	ENGLISH	419		To Mr Samuel Jeake junior in Rye Sussex		1686	THOMAS MILLER	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	MALE	MALE	1644	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	"BUSINESS; FRIEND"	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	8	FALSE	"""THOMAS MILLER"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_217	ESRO FRE 5239	[217] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 26 January 1685/6. Original letter.	227	Sa: Jeake Junior	My Dearest Wife	Your ever loving husband	"London Jan: 26"" 1685/6"				"London Jan: 26"" 1685/6
My Dearest Wife
I am through mercy safely arrived here, where found my father & all friends
very well; I hope you, my mother, little Betty & my Cosin are the same since I
parted from you; I am sorry my stay here must be so long from you for the
Tryall understand is put off till Thursday come sennight next, so that I think
I shall not be at home till the Saturday following, & if there by any other
demurr then it will be longer. Pray havea care of my little Girle her Grandfather
enquires much after her & so do other relations. Give my duty to my Mother
& tell her I have conferred with Cosin Jaye about my Br Nats enlargment &
he thinks it will never be done by any application to Mr Luke, nor any way
else but by the Taylor & his effecting it next assizes by peticion to the Judge
that comes the Circuit, & then it must be by Transportation, but he hath not
promised the Taylor any thing but means to put him in hopes of a reasonable
gratuity in case he do effect it, for he saith there is no other way to do it, he
thinks the Taylor will be in Town this term; if he be possibly I may talk with
him about it: & about some reasonable allowance for his diet for the future,
for my Cosin fears he doth spend the Ss per week & run on with the Taylor as
before; but I know not how it is. I will do what I can to rectify it if I see him
before I come away. Mr John Miller is lately married to a Doctor of Physicks
daughter one Dr Fielding who lives in Covent garden. I hear he hath £800
with her & her father a man of great estate, keeps his [section damaged]. John
lives with him now; & so doth another [son] in law that married another of
them; for the old man wont part with his daughters; I think tis a very good hit
for John if he make good use of it they say also 'tis a very sober family. If you
write me not a Letter this post let me hear from you by next & direct your
Letter to Cosin Jays. My cordial love to your selfe & respects to Cosin tell her
her husband is well, remember me to Little Betty, & to friends that ask after
me. I have no more at present but that I am

Your ever loving husband

Sa: Jeake Junior

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Married Life, 1686	ENGLISH	450		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1686	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_218	ESRO FRE 5240	[218] Elizabeth Jeake to Samuel Jeake junior, 26 January 1685/6. Original letter.	228	Elisabeth Jeake	My Dear	"Your real affectionate
wife
My mother remembers her to you and my Father. I expect to hear from you
this post excuse my writing for my Fingers are very cold."	"Rye January the 26"" 1685"				"Rye January the 26"" 1685

My Dear
this is to acquaint you that a saturday I received a letter from my cousin
wightman wherein he desired you to bring up the bills of sale I went to John
white to enquire concerning them he told me you had them with you as my
cousin desired, my cousin Freebody holds up still she remembers her service
to you betty hath a little of her ague today I hope it will not continue pray my
Dear take care of your self this cold weather I must desire you to buy mea
piece of laced quoif with a pair of ear Knotts if worn the Knot they be to be
worn with are red green and white. I hope you will not be forgetfull of my
hangings and carpet pray dont buy the it to little. My Duty to my Father and
love to your Dear self with Service to those you please to give it I am my Dear

Your real affectionate

wife

Elisabeth Jeake
My mother remembers her to you and my Father. I expect to hear from you
this post excuse my writing for my Fingers are very cold.

To Mr Samuel Jeake at Mr James Wightman a watch maker over against the
salutation Tavern in Lombard Street in London"	Married Life, 1686	ENGLISH	220		"To Mr Samuel Jeake at Mr James Wightman a watch maker over against the
salutation Tavern in Lombard Street in London"		1686	ELIZABETH JEAKE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	1667	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_219	ESRO FRE 5241	[219] Elizabeth Jeake to Samuel Jeake junior, 2 February 1685/6. Original letter.	229	Elisabeth Jeake.	My Dear	your real & truly affectionate wife	Rye Feb 2 1685/6				"Rye Feb 2 1685/6
My Dear
These will serve to let you know that my Cousin Freebody is safly I hope
delivered of a Bage Daughter this day it being about a quarter of an hour
past one of the clocke as neer as could be ghessed little Betty free from harm
still thanks be to God My Dear I received your letter it was very acceptable to
me in regard I heard of your welfare and that of my Father with other relations
but I am extreamly dissatisfied at your so long abscence but am in hopes
your return will be ere long else it would be more insupportable to me then
now as for Robert Bartholomew of Hasting I have heard nothing from him
since your departure I did hear that he was gone out of town but know not
whether it be certain or not and have not time to enquire at present pray my
Dear let me have a letter from you befor your return if possible for I long both
to hear from you and see you as soon as your affairs will permit you; in the
interim be pleased to accept of my real and unfeigned love to your dear self
with duty to my father and service to those you shall think fit. I am my Dear
your real & truly affectionate wife
Elisabeth Jeake.

On thing I forgot to instance in my last to you when I mentioned my hangings
I must desire you to buy some of the same of the carpet enough to cover three
of the little stools I have since sent to know if Robert Bartholomew were gone
as [heard but I find he is still in town but waits only for a fair wind which he
expects every day little Betty remembers her duty to her grandfather and you
and sends you a kiss my Mother presents her service to my Father with love
to your self and others. It grieves me my Dear to leave of writing when I consider
it is to you [word lost] paper will not permit me to write so much as I
would. I must [th]erefore be forced to leave though much against my will but
I fear you [will] tax me with impertinence for what I have already wrote but I
hope [you] will excuse this.
I could wish you would write me a letter to last a day ere it be read. Methinks
you are to brief that you cannot fit half as [damaged section]

Excuse my evil writing but I slept but half an hour last night [damaged
section].

To Mr Samuel Jeak at Mr John Jays at the Golden Lion in Fenchurch Street
in London"	Married Life, 1686	ENGLISH	458		"To Mr Samuel Jeak at Mr John Jays at the Golden Lion in Fenchurch Street
in London"	"On thing I forgot to instance in my last to you when I mentioned my hangings
I must desire you to buy some of the same of the carpet enough to cover three
of the little stools I have since sent to know if Robert Bartholomew were gone
as [heard but I find he is still in town but waits only for a fair wind which he
expects every day little Betty remembers her duty to her grandfather and you
and sends you a kiss my Mother presents her service to my Father with love
to your self and others. It grieves me my Dear to leave of writing when I consider
it is to you [word lost] paper will not permit me to write so much as I
would. I must [th]erefore be forced to leave though much against my will but
I fear you [will] tax me with impertinence for what I have already wrote but I
hope [you] will excuse this.
I could wish you would write me a letter to last a day ere it be read. Methinks
you are to brief that you cannot fit half as [damaged section]
Excuse my evil writing but I slept but half an hour last night [damaged
section]."	1686	ELIZABETH JEAKE	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	FEMALE	MALE	1667	1640-1680	1652	1640-1680	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"""
j_220	ESRO FRE 5242	[220] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 6 February 1685/6. Original letter.	230	Sa: Jeake Junior	"My dear & entirely
beloved wife"	"My Dearest wife
Your ever lo: husband"	London Febr: 6. 1685/6				"London Febr: 6. 1685/6
My dear & entirely

beloved wife

I had thought to have seen you this day which was the Reason I wrote not by
last post but I could not be discharged as it fell out till neer noon & then it was
too late to reach home to night & better for me to spend the Lords day here
then upon the Road. So J intend God willing to set out next Munday morning
& hope to see you before Tuesday night, I thank you for your last letter of the
2d Instant which I read with great satisfaction, and as I doubt not of the sincerity
of your affections. So assure your selfe my dearest that nothing can
alienate mine from you. I think my time as long ere I revisit you, as you can
possibly before you see me. I received not your Letter till yesterday morning.
The things I have sent which you will receive by Hawkherst Carrier were put
on on Thursday in a box & sent down Friday morning because the Tryall
being on Thursday I thought I should have come down yesterday morning,
but Cosin Wightman being desirous to Conferr with his Counsell afterwards
whether any thing more could be done this terme would have me stay to know
the result lest I should be subpenaed again the same terme, & we could not
find him to have his opinion till a few hours ago. There is in the Box the hangings
which are green & white a very large leaf & pretty figure, which I liked so
well that I bought 24 yds and judged that it would do better to cover the
Stooles & for a Carpet & every thing else of the same, which will be better
then to have the stools covered with another stuff. But I suppose you will do
nothing about it till I come home. The box is very full of things therefore if
you have it open'd take care you do not tear the stuff, for I don't know but the
nails may take hold of it at some places. I am glad to hear little Betty is well
& your selfe with my Mother & Cosin Frebody, & that she is safely delivered.
I have a letter for her in my Pocket but shall now keep it & bring it my selfe it
is from her husband who is well but I happened to miss of him yesterday. My
father is well & all Relations & friends. Severall remember to your Cosin
Mackley. I must particularize because I am there. Give my remembrances to
Mother & else where due. The spoon for little Betty I shall bring with me. My
dear & true affections to your selfe & little Bess. I am
My Dearest wife
Your ever lo: husband
Sa: Jeake Junior

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex

Postscript: Nathaniel settled down"	Married Life, 1686	ENGLISH	493		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex	Postscript: Nathaniel settled down	1686	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_221	ESRO FRE 5336	[221] Nathaniel Hartshorne to Elizabeth Jeake, undated. Original letter,	231	Hartshorne	"Deare Sister : . ;"					+ OED, n. 2. Watercress.	"Deare Sister : . ;
Just as I had sent my Wife over the Water with your Fruits I Received yours,

[had sent them long since but being very ill neglected itt I have had them in

the house these 3 weekes I sent for Mr Mannoch and paid him this afternoon

he never asked me but one and then I were in the streete and gave him that

Guinea which was all I had about me then, and as for Mr Miller I shall pay

him speedily with use and thankes which had beene done if I had not beene

sicke and now my disease showeth itt selfe to be the spotted Feayor but my

Doctor tells me (as I find) that the Danger is over, I cannot by any meanes
have my health here and have thoughts of coming to Rye. Pray send me word
who is in your Towne Clerkes Place and by whom elected and I will go and
gett a Warrant for itt, so soon as I dare go abroade and with my stocke I will
trade in Wine or some other gainefull Comodities and take little house if
there be any Vacant: Madam Fochee liveth in Row Alley in Bishops Gate
Streete Madam Boteet was here this day and telleth me her Mother is dead:
Mr Richard Goodenough is in London att Liberty Pray aske my Mother
what I shall say to him as to the Remainder of the Money My wife is a good
Nurse hath milke enough for 2 or 3 and the Girle thrive bravely. I cannot tell
how much Money certainly I shall have to cleare but I am sure a greater sume
then I had to begin with besides some bad debts and one greate one of £120
which I feare I must compound or loose all. My Mother needs not feare any
thing of me for I have farr more owing me than I owe and I am sure I have
been no extravagant husband of my Money by what I have left but my sickness
hath cost me considerably I am sure I have not had one peny but what I
have gott to keepe me my wife in lying in buying clothes for her my selfe and
other necessaries besides my owne pocket expenses in my business and our
lodgings which costs us 4s per weeke meate drinke and washing for our selves
and young child which the must needs imagine only costs money considerably
buying all att the worst hand not having a house and conveniences I hear Mr
Cadman is or is to be Mayor with myour
humble Duties to good Mother and
respects to your selfe and the rest of the family from your loving Bro Nathaniel
Hartshorne

Pray my Mother to send me the cloth for the Coate and I will gett itt made
upp before I goe abroade lett it be good and strong I wish you all a merry
Christmas and wish I had some of your Fatt Geese and Turkys and some
more of those puddings I have not eate 2 peny worth of anything till yesterday
since I were sicke yesterday I eate some of a Chick or else nothing but
watergrass"" & cordials when my Mother sends any thing I desire her to direct
itt home to me is the cheaper way

These to Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye Sussex"	Married Life, 1686	ENGLISH	573		These to Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye Sussex	"Pray my Mother to send me the cloth for the Coate and I will gett itt made
upp before I goe abroade lett it be good and strong I wish you all a merry
Christmas and wish I had some of your Fatt Geese and Turkys and some
more of those puddings I have not eate 2 peny worth of anything till yesterday
since I were sicke yesterday I eate some of a Chick or else nothing but
watergrass"" & cordials when my Mother sends any thing I desire her to direct
itt home to me is the cheaper way"	1686	NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1644	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	23	TRUE	"""NATHANIEL HARTSHORNE"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_222	ESRO FRE 5301	[222] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 26 March 1696. Original letter.	240	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	"Your ever lo: husband
Mind the payment of the Kings tax as I ordered you."	London Mar. 26 1696			"""lather, Gender and Space, 67.
""Barbara Hartshorne, daughter of Nathaniel Hartshorne."	"London Mar. 26 1696
My Dear
This day the Parlia[ment] [word lost] voted that Guineas shall not pass for
above [words lost]. Therefore I send you this that you take [none] [a]bove that
rate. And you may tell Mr [Tucker] for though the vote is that they shall not
pass [words lost] after Apr. 10. Yet nobody
will take them for more assoon as
they hear of the Vote. If Goody Pavis have not paid her money before you
receive this don't take it at all Because now Guineas are settled, clipt money
will not be current I believe for above a week or fortnight except tolerable
good shillings & six pences. Therefore take no half Crowns. But if Pilbeam
bring his rent you may take it because I promised him if brought in fortnight
after Ladyday, only take no Guineas for above 22s. Here is a doctor an
Acquaintance of Mr Thompsons, a sober man that would come to live at Rye,
when Dr Wright goes away. Therefore you may signify so much in the Town
to prevent another from stepping in before him & let me know by Tuesdays
post, whether any body else have made any offer to come. But I suppose there
has not yet so when you send me word I will acquaint him with it. My duty to
mother, love to Betty & Bab."" Mr Miller & his Lady's service with [Mr]
Edwards to you &c In great hast I am

Your ever lo: husband

Sa: Jeake

Mind the payment of the Kings tax as I ordered you.

To Mrs Eliz: Jeake in Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, March—April 1696	ENGLISH	272		To Mrs Eliz: Jeake in Rye in Sussex		1696	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_223	ESRO FRE 5302	[223] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 4 April 1696. Original letter.	241		My Dear	"Tell W Mercer I have bought him a Bible. And I hope he will [word illegible]
to be at Rye on the [word lost] day the 16"" Inst though I can't be at home [for
him]."	"London Apr: 4"" 1696"			"""Sir George Rooke was, in 1696, admiral of the fleet and in command in the English Channel.
John B, Hattendorf, 'Rooke, Sir George (¢. 16501709)
', ODNB.
""Sir William Parkyns and Sir John Friend were Jacobites involved in a conspiracy against
William III. They were executed on Tower Hill on 3 April 1696. Paul Hopkins, 'Parkyns, Sir
William (bap. 1649, d. 1696)', ODNB; Paul Hopkins, 'Friend , Sir John (bap. 1640, d. 1696)', ODNB."	"London Apr: 4"" 1696
My Dear
I received yours of the 31 past [and am] glad to hear you are all well; I will
mind the [words lost] for both for my Mother & you assoon as [words lost]
Madam Miller is now under some [distress] [words lost] of the loss of her
Boy, who died last [words lost] Tell Betty that my Cousin J'ay's Letter & [words
lost] needle book with silver Clasps and Bosses is sent this [word lost] per
Carrier, so you will receive it on Munday. When you write again, let her return
him thanks in a letter in yours to me. You need not seal it only write the
supscription to save postage. Tell Betty also Cos: Jaye remembers to her. I was
at the Nags Head in Jewen Street about the books you call Bibles. But they
askt so excessive dear for those that were handsomly bound that I have not
yet bought any. The reading is very little not so much as you have printed for
2d. And the book not above 2 Inches square & they ask 12d a book. I suppose
one may have them for 11d or 10d. But then I question whether any body will
buy them. There are some they ask 8d for & perhaps will take 6 but they have
no lines of gold on the Covers. You may write me what they that have any of
them give for them, & then I shall know if they ask too much. But I believe 2
dozen will be as many as she will be able to dispose of. It's thought now tha
Sir G: Rook* will return with our fleet, before the French. And I hope we are
inno danger from France neither by sea nor land. But if the French should
attempt to come into the Channell, we are satisfied that we have fleet enough
in the Downs to fight them. And the French forces I believe are certainly
withdrawn from Calais back into Flanders. So that I hope if there should be
any idle reports you will not be afraid nor in any danger. For all things go well
here & we are not under any apprehensions of any thing the Jacobites or
French can do. Yesterday Sir W. Parkyne and Sir J: Friend were executed.""
The Resolutions of Parliament in Thursdays votes are worth your seeing, you
have them [word lost] Rye. Dr Wright need not be disturbed about what I
[word lost] to you, for I thought of the same that he does. And so [word lost]
person does intend to come before Midsummer to see the Town & hire an
house; & will I suppose take it kindly if Dr Wright will inform him any thing
about the methods of practise there used. If he can fit his business I suppose
he will come with me rather than ride alone being a stranger. I know not when
I shall return but it will be fortnight at least if not more. Doubt not but I have
you always in my thoughts with requests to the blessed God through Jesus
Christ for your welfare in this life but especially for your eternal happiness.
And so much the more earnestly as you express your [desires] for it. My duty
to my Mother which with true love to you, respects to friends, love to Betty &
Bab is all at present from your ever lo husband Sa: Jeake.

Tell W Mercer I have bought him a Bible. And I hope he will [word illegible]
to be at Rye on the [word lost] day the 16"" Inst though I can't be at home [for
him].

To Mrs Eliz: Jeake in Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, March—April 1696	ENGLISH	626		To Mrs Eliz: Jeake in Rye in Sussex		1696	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_224	ESRO FRE 5303 [Upper portion of the letter is damaged,	[224] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 4 September 1697. Original letter.	242	Sa: Jeake.		"Your ever lo: husband
Tell Betty I intend to write to her before long. I hope you will not complain
now of a short lett[er]."					"[Damaged section] So that you will have time to write to your sister Holman
{and] her husband about it, & let him send me a letter & [word lost] speak to
Sir Jn° on his behalf, & let my sister also write to [word lost] how great a kindness
it will do her to prevent her removing [word lost] & then I will shew the
letters to Sir Jn° & move him to it again [word lost] Mr Pulteney and Mr
Austin to use their interest for him & if I can before; I will leave it with Mr
Miller, for Sir n° ordered me to [word lost] memorandum with him to mind
him of it at his return. So [word lost] have no precipitation about it for nothing
can be done this mo[nth]. Give my service to Mr Maior, & tell him I have
spoke for the [word lost] to be sent him every Post, & it was ordered to be
done accordingly. [word lost] is very well pleased to hear he is Maior, & said
he would write to him before long, I find our management is very well liked
of, as I [intend] to signify further by letter to him assoon as J have leisure &
op[portunity]. In the mean time I know he lacks no courage to do that which
is for [the good] of the Corporation. I was busied also yesterday in buying 100
in the Bank which was then at 86 or 87. but the broker tells me to not buy
yesterday & he did not doubt but he should get it to day viz for 85 %. He has
appointed to meet me at the Bank Munday [word lost] when he saith I shall
have it transferred. It was at 91 or 92 but [down?] since upon some demur
about the peace, and if there be a further d[elay] I suppose it may sink to 80
for such is the humor here up & down everyday almost. So that this is the
venture: next Monday comes [news] from Holland mail & it depends on that
tise or fall but I must venture [some]thing or else do nothing, so that I mean
to buy one 100 more & [word lost] the demur of the peace, for I hope that may
not be a long demur, & if [news] of the conclusion of the peace should come
then I believe it will be at 100 in a days time, so that then it will be to late, for
I am resolved not to follow it so high. E: India stock is sunk to 54. & I find no
encoura[gement] to do any thing there at present. I resolve to be very cautious
of that. I shall have money enough here with my bank note of £27 16s 9d to
pu[rchase] this 100 in the Bank, so I shall not need to take up any of Mr
Fer{ris] except what I shall pay him again here whilst I stay in London. [If]
John Dickson ask you about the bond I have to receive for him the man says
he will pay it about a week hence perhaps it may be fortnight since but I am
apt to think it be paid in some little time. Flaxseed I have not thought yet
about: so proceed according to the Instructions I left with you. I [word lost]
Mr Tucker may have wrote his son the prizes of Hops. I have [no] leisure yet
to go into Southwark nor seen him since we parted [word lost] Mr Miller's
folks are all in the country. My duty to my mother, love [to] children & all
friends. Which with my affection to you is all at present.

Your ever lo: husband

Sa: Jeake.

Tell Betty I intend to write to her before long. I hope you will not complain
now of a short lett[er].

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	661		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_225	ESRO FRE 5304”	[225] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 7 September 1697. Original letter.	243	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	Your affectionate	"London Sept 7"" 1697"			"""The final third of this letter is extensively damaged."	"London Sept 7"" 1697
My Dear
The enclosed I desire you to deliver. I send them this way because I would not
send that to Mr Maior by post. I suppose old Mr Tucker will give directions
to his son sufficiently cautious about hops. I am not forward to give 10 in the
Country, because the risque is great in coming up. For if one bag come to
damage it sweeps away the profit of a load. As to flaxseed, proceed according
to the directions I left you; Only if you find any one that is positive that he will
not take under 4s 6d per bushel for brown flaxseed & if it be very good. Then
if you can possible get so much time to write to me about it and let them
know [its like] I may buy it but I left no order for [words lost] high price.
Neither would I do it until] [words lost] very good & a parcell something
considerable. I bought £100 stock in the bank yesterday at [words lost] &
before night it fell to 83. Such is the hum[our] because the Holland post brott
no [news of the] advance of the Peace. But if [words lost] My duty to my
[mother] [words lost] [children] & Bab, as also to [my friends]. [In great] hast
I am

Your affectionate

Sa: Jeake

To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	237		To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_226	ESRO FRE 5305	[226] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 11 September 1697. Original letter.	244		My Dear		"London Sept. 11"" 1697"				"London Sept. 11"" 1697
My Dear
I received yours by the Carrier with the Box safe. I am glad to hear of your
health. I suppose you will expect to hear from me once a week & therefore
write now though have not much business. I am told that the Lottery tickets
due at Michaelmas 1696 are sold for 17s per Ticket that is 3s in the pound
loss, & I do think to sell mine that remained after I purchased the Annuity at
that rate if I can. For there will be no money to be had on them till next
summer at soonest. Mine that I have remaining of that year come to £12 for
which I shall have £10 4s at that rate which if I can get I am inclined to take:
Now I write you that you may let my Mother know of it, she has £40 in
Tickets of that year which at 3s per £ discount will make but £34. If she be
willing to sell hers at the same rate I will do my endeavor for it. I think it will
be the best way, for then she will be nothing behind till next Michaelmas: But
if I can{not] meet with an opportunity to sell them, then she must either keep
them till next summer when it's thought the Parliament will provide for [word
lost] payment or else if she care to buy 16 Bla[nk] Tickets more which she may
have at 17s [word lost] she may purchase a Reversion of some [word lost] life
with them & those she has for which she may have £14 per ann when the party
dyes, if the security continue. You must let me know her mind per next post.
As to flaxseed follow my directions already given & buy what offers at those
rates. As for Hops, I must leave that to Mr Tucker, he [knows] my mind how
far I am willing to be concerned [word lost] not above £50 as I remember he
said also he did not intend to go above. I know not what price they are at for
I have no time to go into Southwark till next week. If he can buy for .9. I
believe there is no danger. His father thought he could do something in the
country so I left it to him, for I take his judgment to be better than mine. I
have put off my bank note at par. And got off [word lost] of my bank bill.
Bank stock is now again at .86. Great expectations there are that next mail
from Holland will bring news of the peace: but I fear it will not be so soon.
Mr Miller's child has been very ill he is now gone into the country. Cosin J'ay
(& his wife) give service to you & Mother & Betty. Particularize mine, Paper
fails. lam your etc. Sa: Jeake.

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	501				1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_227	ESRO FRE 5306	[227] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 14 September 1697. Original letter.	245	[words lost] husband Sa: Jeake.	My Dear		"London Sept 14"" 1697"				"London Sept 14"" 1697
My Dear
Thad not written you to night, but that the good news of the peace coming
this morning. I thought would be more welcome to you from my hand than
another, though I doubt not but other Letters will come assoon to the same
purpose. Tis I believe now certain, this coming by express from Holland, with
this account that the peace was signed last Friday night by the Plenipotentiarys
of England, Holland, Spain & France with liberty for the Emperor to sign in
such a time and Strasburgh to be restored to the Empire or the Equivalent
which of the Two the Emperor chuses. The King is now expected over in a
very short time. And things will look with a good face again. Bank stock was
yesterday at 86 & I thought to have ventured another 100 today or tomorrow.
But to day morning assoon as I went out he[ard] the welcome news of peace
which [thanks] be God is much better. For now to day at Exchange time Bank
stock was at 98 a good rise in a days time. So that now I have given over all
thought of buying hoping 'twill rise so that so that I [may] think of selling
before long. Tomo[rrow] we have a Court at the Bank where I hope we shall
be ordered our Bonds in & to receive our dividend. Pray don't trouble me
with any errands, I pray tell Mr Tucker I was in Southwark to day, but could
hear no news from Sturbridge Fair. Mr Travell told me hops had some stur on
them, at least would not go currant at above £10 or £10 5s there I think it not
prudence to run much above 9 in the Country, for now there is a peace there
will be a noise made of the importing of forrain hops. I wrote you last I did
not care to go above £150 deep in that commodity. As to flax seed buy what
you can, but do not exceed what I ordered for now forrain flaxseed will be
imported. Tell Mr Tucker I would willingly have a letter from him [and] know
what he has done about hops, or what he is like to do. In hast I am your
[words lost] husband Sa: Jeake.

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	398		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_228	ESRO FRE 5307	[228] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 16 September 1697. Original letter.	246	Sa: Jeake.	My Dear	Your ever Lo husband	"London Sept. 16"" 1697"				"London Sept. 16"" 1697
My Dear
I have yours of the 14""""I do approve of your buying Chetons flaxseed. But as
for Apps's, if it be so bad as you write it is no matter whether he come again
or no. However what you have bid him I would have you stand to. You had
best keep their samples for sometimes they are apt to bring samples better
than their goods are. I doubt not but you will buy all you can & get them to
bring it in assoon as they can. & keep the white by it self & the brown by it
self. I could not hear how hops were at Sturbridge fair last post & I have not
time to go into Southwark now. I wrote you last post what I heard that hops
were then at a stur, but how it is now I know not. But I depend that Mr Tucker
will have advice from Southwark by the man he said he write to for that purpose.
I refer you to my last letter about hops. I still think it's not worthwhile
to give above 9 in the country. I do not hear anything since of my Chapman
about the Tickets, But now there is peace I doubt not but we shall be paid in
time. I went to Mr Offley this week & he promised me to speak for Br Holman
to some of the Commissioners that he knows, of which have given her account
by post. For me to go to Mr Strong &c. whom I know not will signify not a
farthing. I am glad to hear so many new freeman made &c. There's no need
of certificates yet about the Annuities. Yesterday I was at the Bank Court,
where the Governour told us we should have our Bonds del[ivered] up when
we would, & should have warrants [word lost] our overplus viz. 3 2 p Cent. at
Michaelmas. You may tell Mr Manooch I will take care to receive his when I
receive mine. I suppose it will be paid by Michaelmas. Bank is now at 95.
That's usual for it to waver here every day. I mind what you write about other
things, but now cannot enlarge. My duty to mother, love to you & the
.childr[en] & all friends. I am
Your ever Lo husband
Sa: Jeake.

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	407		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_229	ESRO FRE 5308	[229] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 21 September 1697. Original letter.	247	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	My Dear Your Ever Lo: husband	"London Sept. 21"" 1697"			* Anne Hartshorne, wife of Nathaniel.	"London Sept. 21"" 1697
My Dear
I have yours of the 18'"" & like well what you do about flaxseed, only am
troubled that I cannot ease you of that trouble by my presence but there is no
help for it at present for I think it necessary for me to stay some time longer
here. I would have you imploy Goddin when you want any help about the
flaxseed, and of all you buy get it in assoon as you can, for when there is a
quantity of 30 or 40 quarters I intend to have it to London. As for money if
my mother be willing to let you have £30 I will pay interest for that which with
what you have will do for the present & £10 I suppose Mr Curtis will bring
soon after Michaelmas. But if you find you shall want more let me know a
week before you think you shall need it & I can have it here, for Mr Miller
being to have % will pay his part here, & I shall take care to remitt it you. I
would have you send to Colman the Tailor & tell him before my Mother (who
may be a witness) that if he intend to stay in my house I shall not let it under
50s per year. Only because he may be unprovided I will condescend that he
may tarry till Ladyday at the rate of 40s per annum. And know his mind one
way or other before Michaelmas day. Then after you have done this send to
Mr John Curteis junior or his wife & give them warning either to continue in
my house at £4 per annum or else to leave it at Ladyday, be sure give warning
before Michaelmas. I shall never get any rent of them & therefore I must take
this occasion & now there is peace I do not fear a Ten{an]t. If Colman refuse
tocontinue as above then you may tell Mrs Curtis if she will remove thither
at 50s per year, she may which I will admit of because she was your midwife,
for I shall be always troubled to get the Rent. But that keep to your self. If
Colfman] leave his house its like he will go back into his own & [word lost]
perhaps Smith may hire or buy mine, which my Mother m[ay] mention to
them if it should so fall out. Bank stock continues at 95 1/2. I wrote you
before I had received my Bank Note of £27 16s 9d. And I have received £41
7s 5d on my Bank seal'd bill & tomorrow I am like to receive £30 more & this
week or next [ shall have my dividend of 3 % per % which is £31 10s and my
Bonds in. If John Dickson enquire about his Bond tell him I have received
£25 of it & am prom[ised] the rest on Saturday & hope it will be then paid.
When it is I will write word. I thank God for preserving our house from fire
& for all his special Providence.
The Peace I hope will prove very advantagious to us. I would fain stay a little
longer in hope the Bank will rise higher & though it costs me something more
here in expenses & diet it must do if I continue here then it would do at home,
yet I hope your saving there will make some compensation for it. I do think it
may be worth my while to stay a month longer & to see how things will be
when the king comes over, which I believe will give the stock another rise. I
cannot sell our tickets at 17 therefore I mean to keep them, for I think they
will be paid next year. If you can spare so much time hear Betty to construe
some Latine & to say over the declensions & conjugations, else I shall have all
to begin again at my Return. Give my duty to my mother, my love to you &
the Children & Bab. I have sent the letter to her Mother*' & seen her, & she
will send a Cap before long. Give my service to Mr Maior, Mr Tucker, Mr
Mannooch & other friends. If I have no business I shall write but once a
week, therefore be not troubled when you have no letter, for if I should be ill
you may depend on it I will not fail to write. But I have my health very well I
bless God for it. Tell Mr Tucker that I have been in Southwark this afternoon
to enquire about Hops. & now they tell me that Hops were run down at
Sturbridge fair before it was done to £8 10s per hundred though I understand
it was because the weather was very wet & dirty & they sold so rather than
carry them back to London, some say there is a good crop in Flanders &
many are expected from thence. There lyes our greatest danger in bringing
over Flemish hops. The market in Southwark is dull from £9 10s to £9 15s or
£10. But tomorrow is the great market day for hops there & Mr Travel has
promised me to send me by penny post how they go there & I will not fail to
give him further advice by next post. But I believe it will be a dull market. For
the weather being so very wet they will come up in a dirty condition & being
dull already are not like to quicken this week. In the mean time I think it best
to forbear buying any more till he hears further. And as for those already
bought I am clear of opinion to send them up assoon as possible, for after this
dulness it's very like they may quicken again in October & then we shall be
ready for the market before forrain hops can possibly come in. Besides the
price being considerable it will be best to make our returns assoon as we can.
Mr Miller & wife &c remembers to you, to my mother & Betty, as also to
Mr Tuckers. I remaine

My Dear Your Ever Lo: husband

Sa: Jeake

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	1065		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_230	ESRO FRE 5309	[230] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 25 September 1697. Original letter.	249		My Dear		London Sept. 25 1697			"""Samuel refers here to the coupon which had to be presented to the Exchequer to collect
payment,
""Samuel's own square brackets."	"London Sept. 25 1697

My Dear
I received yours of the 23"" with Betty's which are very welcome, but have not
time to write to her yet. Tell Mr Tucker that I hear by Edw: Newton who lived
at Canterbury that there is a great crop of hops there & the price now but £8
5s per hundred & the very best under £9 there. I am told that the Million
Lottery Tickets which will be now due this 29"" of Sept. 1697, will be paid first
soon after Michaelmas, which makes me sorry that I did not cut them off &
bring up with me.** Therefore I would have you some day next week when you
are at leisure, to look in my Chest & you will find uppermost a large bag with
papers in it amongst which you will find one parcell superscribed [Benefit
Tickets in the Million Adventure]"" open it & cut off neatly one payment
which you will find dated 29 - Sept. 1697 both of my Mother's benefit & mine.
Then under the said Bag you will find 2 parcells of blank Tickets which are
my Mothers & mine, 20 in each. Take them & cut off the payments which you
find dated 29. Sept. 1697. You may observe how to cut them off by observing
how the former have been cut, tis best done with a penknife. When you have
them all off the Total will come to £55 viz: my Mothers benefit £10 & her 20
blanks & my benefit £5 & my 20 blanks. Then double them once & fold them
up in a brown paper or two & so put them in a letter directed to me at Mr
Millers in Dunstan Court Mincing Lane & keep them till Mr Harris or Mr
Tucker come to London & desire either of them to bring it to me & if I not be
Within to leave it with Mr Miller or his wife (you need not tell Mr Harris what
itis, only desire him to have a great care of it there being papers of concern in
it). I am within always at 3. a clock afternoon to be sure. I am glad you do so
well about flaxseed. Take note I paid Geo: Hills 2s 6d which outset when you
pay him if his be so bad as you write perhaps he may be willing to abate something
or to stay till I may return however I would not have you differ with him
for the matter will not be great. I have received £30 more on my bank bill &
shall have my dividend next week. Stock is at 97. Tell Mrs Bridon, Mr Ferris
& I have some hopes of getting her husbands liberty & she may hear more
[fflom me about it in a short time. No news from beyond [seas] the winds
being contrary.

Give my service to Mr Harris I wish him joy of his son & should be very
glad to see him here. My duty to my mother, love to you & my children & Bab.
Service to Mr [word lost] Mr Tucker & other friends. My prayers are to God
for all your welfare in soule & body I remain [your ever] lo: husband S J

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	561		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_231	ESRO FRE 5310	[231] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 30 September 1697. Original letter.	250	Sa: Jeake.	My Dear	Your ever Lo: husband	"London Sept 30"" 1697"				"London Sept 30"" 1697
My Dear
I received yours of the 28"" as to the Tickets they will come time enough by
Mr Harris so send them by him, unless Mr Tucker or his father should come
sooner. You do very well about the flaxseed. I do not find any rise of the
prizes here so keep at 35s per quarter the highest unless you think fit to 36s for
any prime parcell but be sure don't exceed that for any. Don't go after Reubens
if he don't come to you let it go for we had better sit still then buy too dear. If
Tho: Morrow don't come till November, I hope you may have it all in in
October & if he will carry it reasonable I had rather have it by him because I
have imploy'd him before. I suppose he will not expect above 2s per quarter
now there's peace. You may also ask him if he will carry it & at what price &
let me know. You will have time enough for you cannot have all in this month.
As to wheat you must buy as the market price is what you want. I don't trouble
my self about your buying the Horse but seeing you may either take or leave
him till maytide you need not resolve yet till I come home which hope may be
in November for I am desirous to see another dividend at the Bank which will
be at the end of October hoping that may advance it something more.
However I have received my Bonds this morning & cancell'd them & have also
received £31 10s besides in money for my dividend of 3 4 p Cent. The Stock
is sunk a little viz to 96 but there's nothing in it but the humour of the people.
I am sorry to hear my Mother is ill, & you also I will take care about the
Prunes if I can get those that are good. I wish you would accustom yourself
to drink more, & then I believe it would be better. I am glad to hear Mr
Tucker & his wife are on recovery. I have wrote to him severall times to send
the Hops up his father bought by way of Maidston but hear nothing from
him. I would fain have them sent up assoon as possible. Now they are dull
indeed between 9 & £10 per hundr[ed] but the charge of standing is inconsiderable
now they are at so great a price & here we shall have them ready fora
market. For now we expect peace will be proclaimed next week at furthest &
then there will be fitting of ships to sea apace for Irela[nd] & the West Country
& much brewing here, so that it's very likely they may be quick in a fortnight,
but perhaps not hold so long. For when they hear of it in the country then
they will send them up from Canterb[ury] & Maidston whereas this week it
being dull there were but few brought up that I heard of. My Remembrances
where due. I am
Your ever Lo: husband
Sa: Jeake.

Keep the eyebright from growing mouldy."" If Mr Manooch ask about his
dividend tell him Mr Miller has received it & assoon as I come home shall
have it.

Tell John Dickson I have now received all his money of Mr Eyre & when I
come home shall either pay him or continue it at Inte[rest as] best suites his &
my occasion.

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	604		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex	"Keep the eyebright from growing mouldy."" If Mr Manooch ask about his
dividend tell him Mr Miller has received it & assoon as I come home shall
have it.
Tell John Dickson I have now received all his money of Mr Eyre & when I
come home shall either pay him or continue it at Inte[rest as] best suites his &
my occasion."	1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_232	ESRO FRE 5311	[232] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 2 October 1697. Original letter.	251	E: J.	My Dear	"Your Lo: Wife
lo: husb[an]d S: J."	"London Oct .2. 1697
Rye Oct: th 1697."			"* Euphrasia officinalis, more commonly known as 'eyebright', was a popular remedy for weak eyes,
something which Samuel had suffered from since contracting smallpox during his teens. DTGC,
'Etruscan - Eyebright water'.
""Thomas Miller, merchant."	"London Oct .2. 1697

My Dear
In answer to yours of the 30"" past. You may enquire among the shopkeepers
& assoon as you will draw Thirty pounds on me & write your bill thus
Rye Oct: th 1697.
per £30

At three days sight hereof pay to Mr A.B. or order the summe of Thirty
Pounds Sterling value of himself as per advice of
Your Lo: Wife
E: J.
in Dunster Court Mincing Lane London
But if my mother be willing to lend you £30 till I come home I had rather so.
For I can use the money I have here to pay for my part of the hops Mr Tucker
bought & perhaps I may meet with something else that may be probable to do
well. However if you think not fit to do so, draw it on me for you shall not
want as long as I have it. I hope I may return by the middle of November. But
I would fain tarry till then. I wrote you word last post to mind Mr Tucker to
send up the hops which I think of greater importance to me than the flaxseed
because they come to more money, & are a hazardous commodity. I wonder
I hear nothing from him nor his father as if they minded it not though to me
it seems of concern. The Bank is at 96 & I hope now in a very good condition
our bills being at par. For now I hear any one may have his money upon the
old sealed Bills, & after the 10"" of Oct it's said the Bank will allow no interest
for any sum under £100 & for all greater sums put in they allow now but 3 per
Cent which I doubt not but will raise the stock. I wrote you before, I have my
dividend & bonds in. And the latter end of this month we do expect another
of 2 2/3 per Cent which will be to me £26 13s 4d so I would stay this month
to see what effect this will have upon the stock. I was about buying another
100 if I could have got it for 95 but I think not to exceed that. For if it rise
above 100 I intend to sell some. I think never more to give above 100 as I did
before. I am heartily sorry I am forc't to give you so much trouble about
flaxseed but I know not how to help it my concerns being so great here.
There are [no] good Prunes to be got at London however I sent you 14lb of
the best that were to be had which yet are none of the best though very dear
4d per lb. You will have them on Munday per Carrier. I am sorry to hear my
Mother is ill. My Respects to you all with Children [and friends] I am your
lo: husb[an]d S: J.

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	507		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_233	ESRO FRE 5312	[233] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 7 October 1697. Original letter.	252	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	Your Ever Lo: husband	"London Oct 7"" 1697"				"London Oct 7"" 1697
My Dear
I received yours of the 2 instant for answer I cannot affoord to give any
more than 36s per quarter for the best flaxseed that is, therefore so write to
James Snoad. You have done as well as if I had made him the answer for
unless it be extraordinary good it will be too dear at that price. And as for
little parcells don't give above 34 at most. You do manage it so well that I
cannot do better. As for white flaxseed by no means give above 26s per quarter
&not so unless it be of the very best, for some of it is dear enough at 20. And
if it be very full of dirt you had better not buy it at all for it will spoil the rest.
It still troubles me that I can not free you from this fatigue. But I believe shall
return about mid: Nov: if not before. Mr Miller's remembrances to you &
Cos: J'ay's. If Mr Bernard should come to our house, I desire you to receive
him with respect. I am sorry I could not be present for I should have been glad
to have some discourse with him. Mr Tucker it's like will spend a little time
with him. I have not heard how hops go today, but I fear dull still yet I would
not care if all ours were here, though have no great hopes of getting by them,
we shall come off well if we don't lose. Bank 95 % if it come to 98 I am
minded to sell the 100 I bought since I came up I shall see this month. No
good to be done upon buying any thing this winter as I can see yet. E: India
is not for me to meddle with. My Duty to mother love to you & child[ren]
Tespects to friends I am

Your Ever Lo: husband

Sa: Jeake

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	338		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_234	ESRO FRE 5313	[234] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 16 October 1697. Original letter.	253	Sa: Jeake.	My Dear	Your Ever Lo: husband	"London, Oct .16"""".1697"				"London, Oct .16"""".1697
My Dear
I received yours of the 12'"" & that by Mr Harris with the Tickets safe. I thank
you for your care about the flaxseed which is the most sensible trouble that I
am forc't to put you to. I am apt to think I shall return about mid November.
Guinea's are falling to 21s 6d so I would not have you take any more. They go
indeed yet for goods at 22s but we have no such occasion to take them. Bank
Stock is fallen to 92. But no cause except great demands for money at the E:
India house & [to] the Government, so that I am not much concerned at it. [I]
hope we shall have another dividend shortly. [Deliver] the enclosed to Mr
Tucker. My duty to my mother & love to you & children. Committing you to
God's protection I remain

Your Ever Lo: husband

Sa: Jeake.

To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	164		To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_235	ESRO FRE 5314	[235] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 19 October 1697. Original letter.	254	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	Your Ever Lo: husband	"London Oct 19"" 1697"				"London Oct 19"" 1697
My Dear
These are to let you know that Flaxseed is somewhat fallen therefore I would
not have you give above 32 s per quarter at most for brown & not that neither
unless it be very good & well clean'd. And for white give not above 20 s per
quarter at most. And for that which is very dirty you had best not meddle
with it at all. But what you have bought before the receit of this letter, perform
what you have agreed for. I hope you mind that what you have be good
measure for it used to exceed our Towns but fell somewhat. But at least if it
do not hold by our bushell you must have them make it up to that. If it have
not been turned, I believe it is time for you to imploy Goddin to do it lest it
heat. I desire to know whether you have spoke to Morrow about carrying it &
let me know what he saith. I would not have the brown mixed with the white
as yet. But keep them apart & send me up about a Quart of each in Two bags
for a sample by the Carrier next week. The Peace was proclaimed this day.
Bank Stock is at 93. My duty to my mother I have a hood for her which sister
Hartshorn brought, but I suppose she will not want it till I come home which
makes me not send it. My love to you & my children & Bab with respects to
all friends I am
Your Ever Lo: husband
Sa: Jeake

To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	283		To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_236	ESRO FRE 5315	[236] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 21 October 1697. Original letter.	254	Sa: Jeake.	My Dear	My Dear Your Ever Lo: husband	"London Oct 21"" 1697"				"London Oct 21"" 1697
My Dear
I am much troubled to hear by yours of the 19"" that you are so ill & indisposed
& also that my little Girl is ill. I will not give you so much trouble as to
send the flaxseed but tell Morrow I shall not send it till after Christmas which
as it will free you from that fatigue which I would not by any means should
fall upon you; so we think also it will come to a better market toward spring
than now. Truly I am much concerned for your trouble but I hope this will be
some ease to your mind that I shall be home before it will need to be sent. I
wrote you last post not to give above 32s for any brown, nor above 20s for
white per quarter. & to let Goddin turn it. I thought I had wrote you every
week if not I forgot my self. But if Mr Tucker did not tell you about Guineas
it was his fault for I desired him particularly to acquaint you & I thought he
might have done so much. To day in the Gazett is an advertisement that they
[guineas] shall be taken for Custom & Excise &c at 22s. so that I am apt to
think they may pass a while & many do take them so here for goods I believe
no body refuses them. I will take care about your Petticoat & Combs. I do
think as I wrote before to return in mid: Novembfer]. I would fain see whether
we shall have a dividend first. To morrow we have a General Court at the
Bank & I find most of the Members are for it, so that I hope there will be an
order for one & when I have seen what Influence it has on the stock that if it
tise I may sell some, and withall have waited a little to see whether hops will
mend I shall think of returning. There's no money on the Million Lottery.
Several of the Proprietors are to meet next Wednesday to concert the best
methods to obtain the Arrears where I intend to be with them. I suppose it
will be to petition the Parliament about it assoon as they sit, before they fall
on other business. Trouble not your self about the Poor Tax, thats all the
mischief they can do. My duty to mother. With love to you & children is all
at present from

My Dear Your Ever Lo: husband

Sa: Jeake.

To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	440		To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_237	ESRO FRE 5316	[237] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 23 October 1697. Original letter.	255	Sa: Jeake.	My Dear	My Dear Your Ever Lo: husband	"London Oct 23"" 1697"				"London Oct 23"" 1697
My Dear
Yours of the 21"" received. You have done very well about Snoads flaxseed.
Nevertheless if he should bring it in & insist upon your agreement I would
have no difference with him but would give him 34s p quarter if he be so satisfied.
For I would have every body easy that I deal with: Or if you find him
much dissatisfied (as you know at the return of your messenger) I had rather
give 36s then have any brawling about it. And so you may send him word if
you find it convenient. For it's a pretty great quantity & if it be very good I am
willing to have it, for I find there will not be much more to be had. If he have
brought it in before you receive this then it must be adjusted when I return.
But as for any other parcells I say as before give not above 32s per q[uarter].
Nor above 20s for white. I wrote to Mr Tucker to furnish you with £30 & that
Iwould pay so much the more here towards the hops. But if he cannot or be
not free then you must put away some Guineas for my mother at 22s as they
go currant for Goods. Or you may draw £30 on me. Only if you draw on me
let me know when you write again which way you intend to make use of that
my money may be ready. I hope you are better in health & am glad to hear my
little girl is mending. Madam Thompson says bole Armoniack & white
sugar candy powdered & blown through a quill into her mouth is good if it be
of the nature of the Thrush. I wrote you last post that I will not send the
flaxseed till after Xmass. So you will not be troubled with shipping it. The
Commiss[ioners] of Excise would [word lost] nothing this winter but next
spring I think some[thing] may be done for Br H[olman]s remove. I hear nothing
yet about Mr Bridon. Ask Mr Tucker if there be any vessel going to
Exceter, because he wrote he was inclined to send our hops thither. The
Dividend was put of at the Bank till December. Stock is at 92. The King is
expected the beginning of Nov My remembrances to Mother & your self with
the children also to Mr Maior Mr Tucker &c. I am

My Dear Your Ever Lo: husband

Sa: Jeake.

To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	430		To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_238	ESRO FRE 5317	[238] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 28 October 1697. Original letter.	256	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	My Dear Your Ever Lo husband	"London Oct 28"" 1697"			"""Defined in the Dictionary of Traded Goods as an 'astringent bole or earth brought from
Armenia' and used as an antidote or styptic. DTJGC, 'Board nail - Bone comb'."	"London Oct 28"" 1697
My Dear
Iwas very glad to receive your letter by the Carrier, & with all to you hear you
& the children are well for which I bless God. I intend to send your Coat &
things Madam Miller has bought to morrow per Carrier. She will send youa
letter to tell you your Coat must be lined so need say no more about that. I
shall also send my mother's hood & almonds that [sister] Hartshorn bought
for her & a Tippet she sends to Blab] & a few almonds my Aunt sends to
Betty. I thank you for sending the samples. As for Snoad I approve of your
resolution. But if he sends it in at 32s p quarter I should like it well enough
because its a quantity. Or if you should hear from him anymore if you give
above 34 s per quarter for it, if you find he will not let it go under you may
venture so far. I will take care about the spectacles. I doubt not but you will
send up the butter. You may send it by Morrow for I believe he will take most
care of it. I would not have you draw any money on me at present because I
have bought £100 more of Bank Stock at 914 so that I cannot well spare any
at present. And I hope you will not have occasion to draw because you have
paid for most of the flaxseed already bought. & if you should buy Snoads you
may agree with him to stay till I come home, which I believe he will not stick
at seeing he may expect it in a month, which is as ready money for goods. You
may send a letter to Mr W Curteis if you please for £10 interest due to me at
Michaelmas, which I believe he will pay assoon as he receives notice from
you. The King is expected next week. I am as desirous to be at home as you &
think I may return by mid: November unless any thing more than ordinary
prevent me. Our Lottery Ticket men were consulting to petition the Lords of
the Treasury for their arrears & if they do nothing init I believe the Parliament
will be peticioned assoon as they sit. My remembrances with Mr Millers to
mother & your self as also to the children. I can add no more but that I am
My Dear Your Ever Lo husband
Sa: Jeake

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	432		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_239	ESRO FRE 5318	[239] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 4 November 1697. Original letter.	257	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	Your Ever Lo: husband	"London Nov: 4"" 1697"				"London Nov: 4"" 1697
My Dear
I have received yours of the 2"" & am very glad to hear you are all well. I carried
my Mothers spectacles this morning to Mr Pope's to be sent down to Mr
Tucker so she will have them next Monday. I did mind the Chocolat though
you had not mencioned it & intend to buy some before I come away. If you
look in the 2° fir box from the window behind the chair where I used to sit you
will find the Contract between Mr Bishop & Thorp lying one of the uppermost
papers & loose, only perhaps it may be shook down towards the bottom
of the box with your removing it. Bank stock was yesterday run down to 86.
& before night 'twas up at 88. For to day 'tis 88 % or 89, it is grown mighty
uncertain & so I am apt to think it will continue all this winter which makes
me desirous to tend its motion a little longer in hopes I may have an opportunity
to sell some of it for you know how much it concerns us. Besides I find it
necessary to stay about disposing of some of the hops, which though there
will be some loss upon, I think it best to get out of the briers at the best I can.
You know the greatest of our concerns are now here. If they were not I should
not stay from you. If you don't hear from Snoad this week (or by Saterday)
you may send him a letter to this effect, that when you wrote to me of his
coming over about the seed, I was willing to divide the difference so that if he
thinks fit to send it in at 34 s per quarter if it be of the best brown seed he shall

have so for it. My duty to my mother & love to you with Betty & 2 Babs Sam

is to little to take notice. I commit you to God's protection and remaine
Your Ever Lo: husband
Sa: Jeake

Tell Mr Tucker I have sold the 2: bags of fine hops for £9 [number struck out]
2s 6d of the best of the 18 for £8 2s 6d [words struck out] which was the best
I could do & if he not like of it I am content to take them towards my third
part of the parcel; & to divide them I fear there will be more loss by them &
therefore think the first loss will be least.

To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	443		To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex	"Tell Mr Tucker I have sold the 2: bags of fine hops for £9 [number struck out]
2s 6d of the best of the 18 for £8 2s 6d [words struck out] which was the best
I could do & if he not like of it I am content to take them towards my third
part of the parcel; & to divide them I fear there will be more loss by them &
therefore think the first loss will be least."	1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_240	ESRO FRE 5319	[240] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 9 November 1697. Original letter.	258	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	Your Ever Lo: husband	"London Nov. 9"" 1697"			"*In 1697, having failed to raise money through a proposed scheme to set up a Land Bank,
Parliament sought to relieve some of its debts by asking the Bank of England to engraft some of
Parliament's shortterm
debts into the Bank's capital. This was accepted by the Bank but here
Samuel is clearly reflecting the view that a repeat of that measure was not welcome. Murphy,
Origins of English Financial Markets, 634.
"	"London Nov. 9"" 1697
My Dear
I received yours & am very sorry to hear my Mother is so ill & should very
gladly hear of her Recovery. The letter to Robt Myre you may put in at the
Post house of Rye, it will go well enough to London. The king is daily expected
if not hourly some thinking he put to sea yesterday. The Bank is at 88 %.
Some are afraid of another engraftment which is the thing makes it sink.
But though I do not apprehend the Parliament will do any such thing, yet I
think it necessary to stay till they sit & use that little interest I have against it.
I have been fain to sell some of our hops to loss, but I would not have you
discouraged about that it being no more than what I hope we may well bear
& recover again without much feeling it. I look on my concerns about which
I came hither much more considerable & if these do well (as there is a good
prospect now we have peace) I hope to rub through the other well enough. I
am apt to think November will expire before I can conveniently return, but I
am not without hopes that I may compass to come in December. Give my
duty to my mother, remember me to Betty & Babs, which with my hearty love
to you & prayers for you is all at present from
Your Ever Lo: husband
Sa: Jeake

thegoods
-atteast if she should bedangeroustitin
-myabsenee
-but if net}
""I shore er oteatt iene
thisout:

To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	278		To Mrs Eliz. Jeake at Rye in Sussex	"thegoods
-atteast if she should bedangeroustitin
-myabsenee
-but if net}
""I shore er oteatt iene
thisout:"	1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_241	ESRO FRE 5320	[241] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 16 November 1697. Original letter.	259	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	Your Ever Lo: husband	"London Nov 16"" 1697"			*Probably struck out by Elizabeth Jeake.	"London Nov 16"" 1697
My Dear

I have yours of the 13"" Instant & am exceeding glad to hear my Mother is
recovered & that you are all in health blessed be God for it. I am well satisfie,

about Snoad's flaxseed, there will be nothing to be got by it at that rate

would not have you give above 4s per bushel for any nor that neither unles.
extraord[inary] good. But you manage it so well that I can give you no directions.
If Mr Stone should come again you may ask him whether it be about
his money, if it be tell him you will write to me & I will take care he shall have
it or what part he desires in a month. This day the King came through the
City to the great joy of the people who desired he might come in the day that
they might see him, he came in a coach, but the Glasses afforded a good sight
of him on either side the way. Tell Mr Tucker that I can advise him nothing
new about Hops. The King's coming has made every body keep holiday. But
if he can sell those hops between us that cost 8 for £9 or upwards in the
country I am of opinion to take it. For they are certainly dearer there than
here. It's true it's possible they may hold up. But if the Parliament should take
off the duty on forrain hops for this year which is 50s per Cent, or if they
should make another tax on goods as they did last, either of these will sink
the price what ever other accidents happen. I tarry a little to see what effect
the sitting of the Parliament will have on the Bank (which is now at 89) for if
they be favourable to us as there is no great fear but they will, then I shall
return the better satisfied. I believe Miller is come away [before] this. I have
not had time to mind a cheese at present. The Jack I did not send because I
was afraid you would run it into your fingers at opening the parcell so keep it
till I come. I received yours by Mr Warner. My duty to Mother, my love to you
& Betty & 2 Babs & Sam. I am glad to hear he thrives well. I commit you to
God's protection & remain.
Your Ever Lo: husband
Sa: Jeake

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	425	To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex			1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_242	ESRO FRE 5321	[242] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 27 November 1697. Original letter.	260	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	My Dear Your ever lo: husband	"London Noy 27"" 1697"				"London Noy 27"" 1697
My Dear

Because I have some good news to tell you I could not forbear making you
partake of it by this post. And that is that I have gotten £30 for my Mother &
£25 for my self on our Lottery Tickets. And that I have sold the Land at
Wadhurst for a Market price, and as for my Mother's money on it will be
continued upon the same security I gave her which is without dispute. Tell Mr
Tucker I have accepted his bill of £100 & shall pay it next week. Hops continue
as they were. I am not for selling any more as the markets go but waiting
till spring when I hope they may be somewhat quicker. I hope you have not
neglected to send the Butter. I have bought you a cheese which shall be sent
by the vessell that brings the Butter. The Bank is up at 87 4 standing at a stay.
I wrote to know if my mother would buy £100 if it fell to 80 which if she be
inclin'd to I shall be ready to serve her if there be an opportunity. I tarry now
to finish the receiving the money for the hops I sold here & some money I am
to receive on the sale of the Land & also to see a little how the Parliament will
act about the Bank of which we have a good prospect that they will favour us
rather than our adversaries, & when these things are over I think of returning
which I hope may be in a fortnight. But you shall hear from me about the day
senight or the day following & then I hope to tell you more certainly of my
return. My duty to my mother, which with love to you & Children Committing

you to the protection of God I remaine
My Dear Your ever lo: husband

Sa: Jeake

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	336		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_243	ESRO FRE 5322	[243] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 4 December 1697. Original letter.	261	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	My Dear Your Ever lo: husband	"London Dec 4"" 1697"				"London Dec 4"" 1697
My Dear
lexpected a letter from you this post but none is yet bought & I cannot defer
writing any longer being now evening: so if I receive any after I have sent my
letter you will see the reason I cannot answer the contents of it. I have spoke
to Moon the Carrier to bring me up a horse next week which he will do, & so
you may hope to see me this day sennight if God assist. But if any extraordinary
business should make my stay necessary till the week after I may then
continue the horse here till that time. I mean chiefly in reference to the Bank
which is now at 90 or 91 & some think we shall have a dividend ordered the
15 of December at which time will be a General Court. And this would make
it rise higher were it not for fear some Tally men will petition the Parliament
fora new engraftment, yet I think there is no real fear [of] it. I am told they
begin to pay some [of] the Annuities. So I intend to see about that next
Tuesday. I send you the Kings speech which is worth you reading & hope
things will go well with us at last. I hope to be at home before the Gooders
come I intend them 6d a piece. I would not have you take the Guineas unless
youcould put them away immediately as you took them, nor meddle with any
Pistols for they are worth but 17s 4d. My duty to mother & love to you with
my children. In hast I am

My Dear Your Ever lo: husband

Sa: Jeake

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	294		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_244	ESRO FRE 5323	[244] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 14 December 1697. Original letter.	261	Sa: Jeake.	My Dear	Your Ever lo: husband	"London Dec 14"" 1697"				"London Dec 14"" 1697
My Dear

I received yours of the 11"" & am glad to hear you are all in health. These are
to let you know that I intend God willing to be at home this week but I believe
it will not be before Saterday for I shall hardly get out hence till Friday. 1
would have you send to Hounsell (if Morrow will not come so soon) & if he
be not loded I intend to send the flaxseed by him if we can agree for the
freight of it when I come home. But I won't give you any trouble to ship it, for
there is no such hast, I have sold it & am at liberty to send it when I please. I
have received % s Annuitys at the Exchequer which is £9 10s so there's less
behind. I have paid Mr Thompson his £100 & taken in my bond. I have
bought £100 stock for my mother in the bank, & £100 more for myself at 89
per Cent which is to be transferred to morrow on which day there is a General
Court & we expect a dividend will be ordered of 4 per Cent which will reduce
the stock I bought for my mother & self this day to 85. It was uncertain
whether it would come lower, & therefore I thought it best for her to be concerned
a little in it as it is which I hope will do well. I shall take care to pay for
it here & reckon with her when I come home. Tell Mr Tucker I would not have
him draw any money for the hops till I return for if they [will] take the £100
due at xmas for hops at Rye I can pay it better there. I write this post because
I would not have you expect any letter by next hoping to see you this week. I
commit you to God's protection & with remembrances to you & mother &
children I remain

Your Ever lo: husband

Sa: Jeake.

To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	Samuel in London, September—December 1697	ENGLISH	358		To Mrs Elizabeth Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1697	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_245	ESRO FRE 5324	[245] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 30 March 1699. Original letter.	268	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	Your Ever Lo: husband	London Mar 30th 1699				"London Mar 30th 1699
My Dear
Through the blessing of God I came safe hither yesterday about 2. a clock
afternoon & found all Mr Miller's family in good health. & hope this will find
you & all ours the like of which I should be glad to hear. I have seen Mr Lock
& he saith he did receive Wid: Seals bill safe. Pray do not forget Madam
Miller's butter because it's wanted by the first vessell. You need not make any
hast to dispose of the wheat unless it come to 7. Neither will it lack any turning
as yet. Bank was yesterday at 103 '4 & in a rising strain so I know not how
I shall proceed as yet. I hope Sam's Eyes continue well as I left them. Yet if
they do I would have you give him an ounce of manna, & then you need not
purge him any more. I expect to hear from you once a week & you may expect
the like from me & if any thing extraordinary happen then oftner. My duty to
my mother & love to you and the children with Bab and remembrances to
friends concluding this from

Your Ever Lo: husband

Sa: Jeake

To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	A final trip to London, 1699	ENGLISH	216		To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1699	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_246	ESRO FRE 5325	[246] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 8 April 1699. Original letter.	268	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	my dear Your Ever lo: husband	"London Apr 8"" 1699"				"London Apr 8"" 1699
My Dear
I received yours of the 4"""" and am very glad to hear you are all well, If Mr
Maior be willing I shall return the £80 that was paid by Sir Robert Austen to
Mr Miller by his order then I desire Mr Maior to write an order to Mr Miller
to pay it me & do you pay the £80 to Mr Maior, borrow money of my mother
to make it up with the £24 I left & I will answer it to my Mother. I do write to
Mr Young this post to know Mr Maior's mind about it. But if he have otherwise
disposed of it & cannot do it then assoon as you have an opportunity see
if Nic: Stone can return it for he told me he should have some money in
London about this Time. I have bought some stock & done some other
business since I came so desire to hear from you about this per next post. I
shall be very busy next week so may not write but once a week. I have not
been at leisure to buy [word illegible] cloths yet. But pray send word what
things you would have bought that I may have the more time. Madam Miller
is very ill with a cold, but the child's cap Ruffles fan gloves & lace for her coat
was sent you this week per Carrier, as also the Rhenish wine for Ed: Coskar
which being to be had neer me I had time to do. I shall see sister Hartshorn""
next week I sent the letter to her. I am glad you have put the butter on board
hope you ordered him to send it by a Porter with the box, if not let [me]
know whether he be come from Rye. You m[ay] give Sam the manna assoon
as you think fit. [The] weather is warm enough for that if you keep him neer
the fire. Mind to send my things a Munday if you can. My duty to my mother
& love to my children & friends. Mr Miller & his wife remember to you all. I
commit you to God's protection & with my affectionate love to you remain
my dear Your Ever lo: husband
Sa: Jeake

Let me know whether you paid 14s 6d for the butter for the present till the
Crock is weight & what it weighs in all I think it was 36 % lb.

If you cannot have this return of Mr Maior enquire if you hear of any other
&send me word. Let Mr Young speak to Mr Maior first about it for I wrote
the letter to him.

To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	A final trip to London, 1699	ENGLISH	463		To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1699	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_247	ESRO FRE 5326	[247] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 11 April 1699. Original letter.	269	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	My dear Your Ever lo: husband	"London Apr 11"" 1699"			*Probably Nathaniel Hartshorne's widow.	"London Apr 11"" 1699
My Dear
I have received yours of the 8"" Instant with the enclosed which I do send this
post to sister Holman that she & the others may be in readiness about that
time mentioned to come to Rye, So if you hear again from Sister Holman
what day she & they appoint to come to Rye you must I think send in purpose
to Mr Taylor to let him know so much that he may not fail to meet them. I
have ordered Sister Holman to send me word also what day she appoints that
I may give notice to Mr Tournay which I can do by post. lam sorry little Bab
has an ague, you write Sam's eyes are not worse whereby I hope they are
somewhat better which should be glad to hear. I wrote you last post to see if
Mr Maior would let me have the money that Mr Miller received for him &
you to pay him the money there which this confirms. If you can have that
money I shall want more besides & therefore I did speak to Mr Ferris this day
& he saith that Robt Brown"" can return 80 or £100 if he have not disposed of
it already which he thinks he hath not & therefore doth write to him this post
to let me have it before any one else. So pray go to Robert Browne & get a bill
of him for £100 or for as much as you can if he cannot let you have the whole,
& send it me up next post for then Mr Ferris will pay it me upon sight. Borrow
money of my mother to pay for it. I will allow her Interest for the time I keep
it. The Land Tax is not yet past so that you need not speak any thing about
my Tax till I [mention] it, but I hope to be at home & do what [is] need full my
self before the day of appeals comes, for that cannot be before the end of
May. Mr Miller &c give remembrances to you. Things go pretty well at present
but for particularities you must expect at my Return, my letters may be opened
you know where which makes me forbear. My duty to mother, love to you &
the children concluding this from

My dear Your Ever lo: husband

Sa: Jeake

To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	A final trip to London, 1699	ENGLISH	417		To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1699	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_248	ESRO FRE 5327	[248] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 15 April 1699. Original letter.	270	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	Your Ever Lo: husband	"London Apr: 15"" 1699"			"*1Robert Brown was a mariner and wealthy inhabitant of Rye. He and Samuel had dealings on
various occasions during the 1680s and 1690s. Hunter and Gregory, Astrological Diary, p. 266."	"London Apr: 15"" 1699
My Dear
I received both yours of the 11"" & 13 Instant with Mr Maior's bill of £80 &
the box you sent per Carrier. Mr Dupper is a man I don't know & therefore
he may be content that I should receive the money here before you pay him at
Rye. But if you be satisfied about him by Mr Tucker or Wm Mercer then if he
desire it you may let him have the money when you take his bill, if you have
not his bill before this comes to hand then let it be drawn at 3 days sight which
I had rather than at sight for fear of miscarriage. If you cannot have the
whole £100 of him then see to get it of Nic: Stone, Mr Wilmshurst, John
French or Robt Brown or some other that you know is sure, and assoon as
you can. I hope to be back sometime in May, but cannot yet fix the time. I saw
Cosin Betty Wightman in London & suppose she will come to Rye if I come
by Maidstone which I think to do. I am glad to hear Sam's eyes are well but
very sorry that Bab's ague continues. I see you have given Betty physick with
good success hope she may be better after it. I have had no time yet to consider
your letters about what you desire to be bought, but I shall mind it next week.
I wrote you I had bought some Bank stock which will excuse my Tax, but I
hope to be at home time enough to plead that, for it is not yet past & cannot
be in the country before the end of May. Bank was yesterday at 105. I have
received my mother's dividend £9 which will account with her when I come
home. I have also received '4 yr Annuities at the Exchequer £19 Mr Manooches
also is paid which I received of Mr Miller by his order & will reckon with him
at my return. But you need not mention it to him unless he ask you. It's no
matter for the shirt seeing I shall return in May. Give my duty to my mother,
tell her sister Hartshorn remembers to her & Bab. I paid her 24s for the things
she sent by my mothers order. My love to you & the children & Bab H.

Remember me to friends. I am my dear
Your Ever Lo: husband

Sa: Jeake

If you meet with returns to your mind you may send me bill for 20 or £30
more besides the £100 & take up money of my mother.

To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	A final trip to London, 1699	ENGLISH	458		To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex	"If you meet with returns to your mind you may send me bill for 20 or £30
more besides the £100 & take up money of my mother."	1699	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_249	ESRO FRE 5328	[249] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 18 April 1699. Original letter.	271	Sa: Jeake.	My Dear		"London Apr: 18"" 1699"				"London Apr: 18"" 1699
My Dear
I received yours of the 15'"" with the enclosed bill of £40 such I doubt not but
will be well paid. You may remit £80 more assoon as you have opportunity
from safe hands, but I would not have you hurry your self about it, for I can
shift well enough till you meet with it conveniently which I suppose you may
in a week or fortnight time. I had a Letter from Sister Holman wherein she
writes me word that she and her Brothers & Sisters will all be at Rye on
Wednesday the 26"""" of Aprill. I do write to Mr Tournay this post to give him
notice of it & that he may pay his money here if he please. But however if he
do not pay his money at Rye do not let him have the Bond till you have advice
from me first that the money is paid here. I do also write to Mr Taylor this
post to let him know that they appoint to be at Rye on the 26"" of April. But
lest my letter should not come to his hand, I think it would be meet for my
mother to send one over to him to Tenterden on Friday next to acquaint him
with it. I suppose you may get one to go over afoot for 2s. As for Mr Tournay
you need not trouble your self for if he do not come the fine may be levied
without his being there. Tell Betty I have not time to answer her letter now.
She may take the Spirit of Savery Grass she mentions, it may do her good. I
shall Endeavour to do all the errands you have mentioned in all your letters.
& am glad you have sent them all already for I would not have any new things
mentioned when my time draws neer to come away, because I shall dispose of
what money I have more than the things come to for other purposes & then
that will put me to a nonplus
to have other things to buy besides I shall want
time. But if you have forgot anything that you would have for your self I will
endeavour to oblige you, but not any body else. Bank was yesterday 105 1/2.
I would have you keep on Sam's bongrace* & let him be led till his eye is
thorough well for a fall will make it return again. Better lead him about a
month too long than a day too short. I am glad Bab has lost her ague & bless
God for all his mercys, my duty to my mother & love to you & the Children.
Mr Miller remembers to you, I am my dear Your Ever Lo: husband

Sa: Jeake.

To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	A final trip to London, 1699	ENGLISH	481		To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1699	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_250	ESRO FRE 5329	[250] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 25 April 1699. Original letter.	272	Sa: Jeake.	My Dear		"London Apr 25"" 1699"			"* OED, n. 2. A broadbrimmed
hat worn to shade the face."	"London Apr 25"" 1699
My Dear
I received yours of 22"" Instant I shall take care about the errands you wrote,
as time & opportunity serve me. I am sorry to hear Betty is not well, nor
Sam's eye. I hope he has had no more falls. I had a letter from Mr Tournay
that he will be at Rye to morrow and pay the money there; The Butter is come
by Tho: Morrow. Madam Miller says that Trains are worn still with womens
upper petticoats but not so long as formerly; And as for fringes she saith they
wear them strait but she would not advise you to alter any for they are worn
both ways, Twas a good time to have bought in the Bank yesterday for it fell
from 105 to 104 upon a blind story of the Frenches coming. But that being
blown over it rose again today to 104'. As for telling when 'tis a good time to
purchase that's past my skill or any body's else. I have taken up sixty five
pounds of Mr Newman of Winchelsea for which I gave him a note payable
the 26"" of May before which time I hope to be at home. Madam Miller desires
to know whether the silk you would have drawn with Indian sprigs be for a
Mantua or for a Lining, for she saith if it be for a Mantua it will be so very
tedious for you to work it that she would rather advise you to have it painted
with lively flowers which shews exceeding well & may be done for about 15s &
will wear very well provided it don't come to wet which you will have no
occasion to use it in. So she would have you send word next post. I cannot yet
meet with any iron kettles that hold above 8 gallons or 10 at most. So have not
bought yet. I have received one & Twenty pounds & nineteen shillings of Tho:
Morrow for which I being absent Mr Miller hath drawn a bill upon you this
day by my order paiable at sight to one Mr John Atkins or order, which I
desire you to pay when bought to you. I think he is a Lydd* man but that is
not material. Take a Receit on the bill when you pay it, If he come not himself
then see if his name be endorsed on the bill or else do not pay it. I have spoke
to Mr Ferris & he saith he will write to Robt Brown to let you have 2 Retum
the first he can. So I would have you get £100 mre of him unless you can
meet with it or part of it before he can let you have it, you may take up money
of my mother till I come home. My remembrances & Mr Miller's [to you] all
in hast I am my dear Your [ever] Lo: husband

Sa: Jeake.

To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	A final trip to London, 1699	ENGLISH	510		To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1699	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_251	ESRO FRE 5330	[251] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 2 May 1699. Original letter.	273	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	"my dear Your Ever Lo: husband
They begin to leave off trains from all their petticoats."	London May 2™ 1699			A yillage in the Romney Marshes, about ten miles from Rye.	"London May 2 1699
My Dear
I received yours of the 27"" & sister Holmans of the same date. I know not
how to inform her any thing more about Allington Court than what Mr
Tournay told her & so you may write her for its not worth while to put her to
2d charge to send her a letter from hence. Your silk is put out to paint & will
be done next week & with your mantua. I intend to send your best petticoat,
being of most value. Other things I have put aboard Tho: Morrow to day viz:
1. fir box full of things viz: A large Bible which when it comes to hand pray
lay it up carefully till I come home. There is also my watch in a little box which
mind to take care of. Then there is all the shooes you sent for except 1 of your
shoes which was not brott till the box was sent away so I must send it to you
hereafter. Then there is my Gown, the ovens door, 1 p Holland of 19 1/2 ells,
Nans bible. 3 lb Hair powder. 6 washbals. 1 pr shoes for me. the point pattern.
Wafers, 1 pr stockings. 2 shirts. 2 caps. 2 cravats. 2 pair wristbands. 3 pair
gloves, & that you sent. 4 pillowcoats. 1 flannel petticoat. 1 pair pattens, 1 pair
clogs. 2 pewters for washbals. 1 Frock or Gown for Bab cut out. 1 Green
Girdle & other green Ribbon. % yd black stuff anterine.* All this is in the box
together with other small things. Then there is a parcell tyed up together
where you will find 6 psalm books for Wm Mercer & the stuff that Mrs Betty
bott for Nan 16. Yds. & a brass potlid & a whisk. Besides I sent by Morrow
an armed chair black with rush bottomed & also an Iron Kettle, which will be
too little I fear but I could meet with no bigger though were at a many shops.
Morrow talks of going down to morrow so I hope you will receive the things
safe in a weeks time. I cannot buy the lining of the bed at present & I will tell
you the Reason when I come home. As for Mr Tournays bond I don't think it
worth while to send it up if he pay any money here I can give him a Receit till
he comes to Rye. As for the Report you have of the sickness being at London,
there's nothing in it. The City is very healthy at present. I have the promise of
Mr Ferris & Mr Cox for £100 from Ro: Brown assoon as Mackrells come in
viz. the first money he can draw for fish & therefore I would have you mind
R Bfrown] of it for I perceive you cannot get any elsewhere if you can of a
sure hand then you may return what you can otherwise & so take the less of
R Brown. I hope you are all well because I hear not to the Contrary, my duty
to my mother love to you & the children & friends concludes this from

my dear Your Ever Lo: husband

Sa: Jeake

They begin to leave off trains from all their petticoats.

To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	A final trip to London, 1699	ENGLISH	565		To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1699	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_252	ESRO FRE 5331	[252] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 4 May 1699. Original letter.	274	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	"my dear Your Ever Lo: husband
[know not whether I have any letter from you to day, because I have not time
to go to Mr Miller's before night."	"London May 4"" 1699"			"*Antherine, n. a light fabric made from a mixture of wool and silk, or of cotton and mohair:
OED. Stuffs were usually textiles made from mixed fibres."	"London May 4"" 1699
My Dear
I received your stays by the Carrier & Mr Tournays bond enclosed in them,
which I shall take care of. I have spoken to Mr Ferris again & he has promised
me] shall have a return of £100 of Robt Browne, which he has appointed that
you shall pay the £100 for Robt Browne & take his bill & send up to me & then
he will pay me the money here next week. So I desire you not to fail of paying
the money to Rob Browne & sending me his bill on Mr Ferris by next post.
Mr Ferris promised me to write also himself & order Ro: Brown to give you
a bill for the said summe which he may draw at sight or 3 days sight as he
pleases. If Mr Ferris should forget to write him, yet he need not question the
thing for it's true & Mr Ferris directed me to write to you to pay the £100 to
Browne & saith I may depend on it that he will furnish me with it next week
here. You had best get the wheat turned once, though it do not lye very thick.
Here was a report of the K: of Spain's death last night, but tis not much
credited as coming from the French Ambassador, what more may be said
about it before night I know not, for, I write now at 4. afternoon. I tarry now
for Mr Benge coming to London, & if I could finish the business with him I
should return but it may be about 3 weeks yet before I shall dispatch to [word
lost]. My duty to mother & love to you & the children hoping you are in

health. I commit you to God's protection & remain
my dear Your Ever Lo: husband
Sa: Jeake

[know not whether I have any letter from you to day, because I have not time
to go to Mr Miller's before night.

To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	A final trip to London, 1699	ENGLISH	345		To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1699	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_253	ESRO FRE 5332	[253] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 11 May 1699. Original letter.	275	Sa: Jeake	My Dear	My dear you Ever Lo: husband	"London May 11"" 1699"				"London May 11"" 1699
My Dear
I received yours of the 8'"" Inst. You have done well to depend upon the return
from Robt Browne, so I would have you tarry till he can do it, & not go to any
body else. I am glad to hear Morrow is safe arrived & that the things are all
dry & well. Pray mind my Bible & the watch. I know not what price wheat is,
but if so as I told you viz 7 s you might if you had opportunity sell 12 bushells,
but if not it's no great matter till I come home which I hope will be about the
29"" of May so that if the Cistern be not begun you may have it omitted till I
come home, or how you please for it will please me either way it being a good
time of year to do it in & dry weather. I hope you give the wheat air now &
then; But have a care of your or any one's falling out of the doors. Madam
Miller will direct you about your head washing which is now done without
the brush. The Tax is hardly printed yet so I suppose shall be at home before
the day of appeals can possibly come, I am not taxable now for personall
estate. But you need not mention any thing unless only you may write me
when you hear the Tax is made for when that is made there is 10 days after for
appeals, Bank is at 104, has stood at a stay for about a week. As for Winter's
Rent it's no great sume so you need not send to him. I conclude you are all
pretty well in health because you mention nothing to the contrary. My duty
to my mother Love to you, & Betty, Babs & to Sam: & all friends. I commit
you to God's protection praying for your prosperity & remain
My dear you Ever Lo: husband
Sa: Jeake

To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	A final trip to London, 1699	ENGLISH	347		To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1699	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_254	ESRO FRE 5333	[254] Samuel Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 18 May 1699. Original letter.	276	Sa: Jeake.	My Dear	My Dear Your Ever Lo: husband	"London May 18"" 1699"				"London May 18"" 1699

My Dear
I received yours of the 16"" with the Enclosed bill of £100. But having last
Tuesday drawn on you £60 payable to Mr Ferris's order & it being all I have
occasion for he has ordered me to send down the bill again to you. So that if
you have not paid any bill of £60 then let Ro: Brown make you a Receit on
that & pay you back £40 & then give him this bill in again. But if you should
have paid the bill of £60 besides before you receive this letter, then let Rob:
Brown give you in my bond of £100 (you delivering him in this bill & paying
him the years interest.) I am now thinking if the Carrier have a horse that will
fit me to come from London this week by way of Maidstone & so home the
beginning of next week. But I have not yet seen the Carrier so cannot tell
whether I can have a horse if not I intend to speak to him for one next week,
so cannot say yet whether I can do any of the things you write. My duty to my
mother & love to you & my children in hast I am

My Dear Your Ever Lo: husband

Sa: Jeake.

To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex"	A final trip to London, 1699	ENGLISH	231		To Mrs Eliz: Jeake at Rye in Sussex		1699	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	15	FALSE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_255	ESRO FRE 5360	[255] Barbara Hartshorne to Elizabeth Jeake junior, 1699, undated. Original letter.	276	Barbara Hartshorne	My dear	"Thy loving Grandmother
Remember the beans"	Rye Satt morning				"Rye Satt morning
My dear
I doubt I shall tire thee with my scribbling I have nothing to write but to let
thee know we are all in good health at present as I hope thou art. I must tell
thee some newes I know ore else I should have nothing to write which is to tell
thee that thy mother cusin Betty Bab went a wensday affter dinner to udimor
to cusins Odiarns lay there that night thursday morning designd to goe a Foot
to my brother John Clarks with my cusine Odiearn, Cusin nanci Holman and
two or three of my cusin Odiernes children but as they were setting forth
tooke the convenience of a waggon goeing for wood very near the house
where they were bound and took the opportunity of the coach with six oxen
and a postilion an a single horse by; were very kindly entertained and they
thought very welcome dined there with very pleasing cheere after dinner
returned to udimor lay there that night and last night came home just before
fella violent great raine. I write in great hast for fear my messenger will be
gone or else I could tell you some rye news. Just as I was writing Cussin Betty
came to my chamber to desir me to give you her servis which I pray to accept
with all the rest of our kind loves, with mine in particular Mother is busi a
baking Bab a bed my dear I hartily kiss thee in my thoughts

Thy loving Grandmother

Barbara Hartshorne

Remember the beans

To Mrs Elisa: Jeake at Madam Brewers at Fowlers in Hawkhurst Kent, these"	Letters to Betty, 1699	ENGLISH	277		To Mrs Elisa: Jeake at Madam Brewers at Fowlers in Hawkhurst Kent, these		1699	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	ELIZABETH JEAKE JUNIOR	FEMALE	FEMALE	UNK	1600-1640	1688	1680-1720	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE JUNIOR"""
j_256	ESRO FRE 5361	[256] Barbara Hartshorne to Elizabeth Jeake junior, 7 August 1699. Originalletter.	277	Barbara Hartshorne	My dear Betty	"farewell my dear from thy loving grandmother
Mother says she is busie she cannot write folding clothes taks up her time at
present"	"Rye 7"" Aug"			*Probably Udimore, a village about 8 miles to the west of Rye.	"My dear Betty

Yours I have to day by carrier am glad to hear your well I have sent you an old
lace for a tucker which your mother had ocation for som of it last week. She
persuaded me twas good for nothing for bab not to make her a tucker and
now she would have it to make you one, but I am ashamed to send a thing
good for nothing to beg thy acceptance I have sent thee another I have bought
at Mrs Warners, tis not fine but better then the other because it is stronge thy
mother would not have thee thinke her displeased because thou writs for
things she is very ready to co[mp]ly with thee for that because she knows thou
wilt write for no[thing] but what thou wants thy father sent thee a letter last
munday he doubts thou hast not had it. Rye news hear is to fast Bucks to be
eaten a wensday at the mearmaid forty pounds to be spent upon a dinner by
Burgess this is all I have to say saving our kind love to thee cosin betties servis
farewell my dear from thy loving grandmother
Barbara Hartshorne

Mother says she is busie she cannot write folding clothes taks up her time at
present

Rye 7"" Aug"	Letters to Betty, 1699	ENGLISH	220				1699	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	ELIZABETH JEAKE JUNIOR	FEMALE	FEMALE	UNK	1600-1640	1688	1680-1720	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	UNK	FALSE		UNK	"""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE JUNIOR"""
j_257	ESRO FRE 5359	[257] Samuel Jeake to Elizabeth Jeake junior, 9 September 1699. Original letter.	278	Sa: Jeake	Dear Child	Your affectionate father	"Rye Sept. 9"" 1699"				"Rye Sept. 9"" 1699
Dear Child
I am glad to hear by your letters yesterday that you have been something
better since your mother was to see you. I pray God continue it & restore your
health & to him return thanks and in all your ways acknowledge him & he
shall direct your pathes. I suppose the pain of your head may return again,
but if it do be not out of heart: as it returns so it may remove. Man is born to
trouble. Endeavor to make a sanctified use of all afflictions, & let all the dispensations
of providence draw you nearer to God & more off from the world
in which you are but a stranger as the Apostle speaks of the believer in the
11"" of the Hebrews who did not take up their rest in this world but looked for
a City that hath foundations whose builder & maker is God. Look upon sin
as the greatest Evil of all & pray to God not to lead you into Temptation.
Avoid all occasions of sin, lest you be left to your own strength & fall, Keep
in the way of God's providence & in doing your duty & then you may expect
his protection. Chuse affliction always rather than iniquity. These directions
that I give you will be of use to you in after times as well as now even thro the
whole course of your Life. It is a comfort to me that I have observed in you
some good thing towards the Lord God of Israel & I trust he will perfect that
good work he has begun in your conversion to him to serve the living God. If
you acquaint your self with Christ it is not so much matter for acquaintance
in the world. I commit you to God & remain
Your affectionate father
Sa: Jeake

To Elizabeth Jeake at Madam Brewers at Fowlers in Hawkhurst in Kent"	Letters to Betty, 1699	ENGLISH	328		To Elizabeth Jeake at Madam Brewers at Fowlers in Hawkhurst in Kent		1699	SAMUEL JEAKE JR	ELIZABETH JEAKE JUNIOR	MALE	FEMALE	1652	1640-1680	1688	1680-1720	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	36	TRUE	"""SAMUEL JEAKE JR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE JUNIOR"""
j_258	RMA, Selmes Manuscripts, RYEYT: n39.58	[258] Obituary Poem for Samuel Jeake printed for W. Marshall at the Bible in Newgate-Street, 1700.	279									The Death of Samuel Jeake, 22 November 1699	LATIN & ENGLISH	0																				
j_259	ESRO FRE 5337	[259] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 13 May 1701. Original letter.	282			Dear Mother	London May the 13 1701				"London May the 13 1701
To tell you Dear Mother how I got to London is a difficult task but thro the
goodness of our gracious protector I am safe arrived two persons besides my
self sate on my end the Gentleman not at all less than capt Martin so [word
illegible] in his full bigness the Lady not inferiour in Bulk. [word struck out]
So Mrs Hall thus sate up I rode 3 [word illegible] other side a gentleman of
which held a young Lady on his knee, warm riding for us all. I called at
Dr Curteis where I was civily receiv'd and importun'd to stay 'till the next
coach day which will be Thursday next if I could not have got a corner in the
coach intended to have accepted so etvit kind an offer. I find Mr Miller his
family are all very well I had the happiness to see Mr Miller who came pat to
meet at the Inn. he presente his service to you, my Duty to my Dear Mother
with Love to my Children & service to the Dr: & his Lady not omitting the
rest of my Friends I am
Dear Mother

To Mrs Barbara Hartshorne at Rye in Sussex"	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	208		To Mrs Barbara Hartshorne at Rye in Sussex		1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_260	ESRO FRE 5338	[260] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 20 May 1701. Original letter.	283	E Jeake		"Dear Mother
Your most obedient
Daughter
If my Mother has any service for me I beg she would not defferre her
commands."	"London the 20"" of May 1701"				"London the 20"" of May 1701

To keep my word Dear Mother & to let you know I am by the goodness of
God in health I write this for have nothing to communicate as touching my
business if there should an opportunity offer during my stay would have
Betty send mea piece of red Indian sattin the same of my gown tis in the chest
rolled up with other silk I hope I shall hear next post that you are all well
Betty is very thrifty of her scrawl she might be more liberal unless twere
Better. I just now saw cousin j'ay have not been at the other end of the Town
yet my most Humble Duty to my Dear Mother with sincere Love to my
children & niece Bab. Service to my Friends if you do but know the true from
false 1 am

Dear Mother

Your most obedient

Daughter

E Jeake
If my Mother has any service for me I beg she would not defferre her
commands."	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	171				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_261	ESRO FRE 5339	[261] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 1701, undated. Original letter.	283	Elisa Jeake		"Dear Mother
Your ever dutiful
Daughter
Thursday night past ten."					"I have this day Dear Mother seen Mr Benge who is full of talk says his money
is teady & that a conclusion will be made which I heartily wish the carrier
came to town a day sooner than ordinary which has much disappointed me in
some little remembran{ce] as I intend for home & Marys gown & petticoat.
Betty tells me not whether she has sent a Box for sugar for us per Hoy I would
by no means have Bacon forgot it is pretty late so cannot extend this to a
greater length only desire to know if Mrs Young would have muslin for ruffles
as well as head & hood which is alredy bought. I bless God I am well & heartily
wish you & my dear may be so Duty to my Dear Mother & love to my
children. Service to all my friends I am

Dear Mother

Your ever dutiful

Daughter

Elisa Jeake
Thursday night past ten."	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	162				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_262	ESRO FRE 5340	[262] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 24 May 1701. Original letter.	284	Elisa Jeake		"Dear Mother
Your obedient
Daughter
Love to the Maids
Past ten a clock says the watch man good night
No news of Bacon yet 3 pints of shelled pease sold for £3 for some Aldermans
Daughters weding."	"London May the 24"" 1701"				"London May the 24"" 1701

This serves Dear Mother to inform you anew of my health which thanks be
to God is still continued I hope the same blessing attends you and my children
I received yours not till yesterday if you had directed to me at Mr Millers
Merch and in London it had come on Thursday but adding Dunster Court
and not Mincing Lane 'twas carried into Fleet Street I have bought you petticoats
but for head linen am at a loss knowing you will not conform to high
heads which young & old wear here no glove tops worn tell Bettie her hair
trussed up as mine uses to be is the way low dresses & two double ruffles. Tell
Sarah I will mind her trunk & hope she will mind her business to dispatch it
nimbly out of the way that I may have a clean garden and see the effect of her
diligence in spinning these long days. Mr Miller and his Lady send their service
to you & Madam Miller wishes she had you and the children to make
much of that I might never go to Rye again, be pleased to give my service to
Mr Tucker & his sister & let ""em know I have a gratefull sence of all their
civilities to my Dear Mother and shall not be wanting in my acknowledgements
whenever oppertunity offers. My most Humble Duty to your Dear Self
& Love to my Dear creatures with service to the Dr: and where else you please
I am

Dear Mother

Your obedient

Daughter

Elisa Jeake
Love to the Maids
Past ten a clock says the watch man good night

No news of Bacon yet 3 pints of shelled pease sold for £3 for some Aldermans
Daughters weding."	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	300				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_263	ESRO FRE 5341	[263] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 27 May 1701. Original letter.	284	Elisa Jeake		"Dear Mother
Your most Dutifull
Daughter
Love to the Maids."	"London May the 27"" 1701"				"London May the 27"" 1701
I shall take care Dear Mother to execute your commands in all the particulars
& hope if Madam Shonkburgh have the horse for her journey he will not be
received into her family & if not I hepetmay shall be glad to have him after
her which I confess is manners & as much as I desire at present Mr Short has
not yet been at Dunster Court nor was yesterday morning come to Town I
have not waited on the foremenconed lately but intend to pay my devoir so
soon as I know how my business stands shall communicate it to my Mother.
Let Betty send me the piece of red Indian Sattin by Mr Chiswel to leave at
Mrs Tomkins if it be not sent per carrier I wou'd know what Mrs Seal wou'd
have instead of her carnation Tape I have forgot I am glad you have so much
good company Madam Miller advises Betty to weave bone lace rather than
Point which is quite out of voge if she incline to the Ladys sentiments will buy
a pieke of Lace. The Box for sugar wou'd have sent as Betty says to Mr
Wilmoore & when Mr Chiswel's Hoy is come up would have word. Madam
Grace & Ashurst have given a visit to Madam Miller were pleased to invite
me but have not yet been nor made any visit but a perpetual hurry of buying
things I have bought my Aunt's Lace but did not think worth while to make a
pacquet of that alone the first oppertunity of convenience she may expect it.
My Humble Duty to my Dear Mother with Mr & Madam Millers service to
you and Betty. My Love to my Children service to my friends. Your cordial
was proper for your [word illegible] lam B

Dear Mother

Your most Dutifull

Daughter

Elisa Jeake

Love to the Maids.

To Mrs Barbara Hartshorne at Rye in Sussex"	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	329		To Mrs Barbara Hartshorne at Rye in Sussex		1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_264	ESRO FRE 5342	[264] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 29 May 1701. Original letter.	285	Elisa Jeake		"I am Dear Mother
Your most Obedient
Daughter
Mr Millers & Madams Service to you all Include niece for I esteem her one of
my Dear children. Love to the maids."		"Thursday 29"" of May"			"Thursday 29"" of May
Excuse Dear Mother the brevity of my Letter which is only to inform you I

am well & received the Bacon so too with the other things I heartily thank
you had the Dr's Letter the day & shall return him answer in the mean time
beg his acceptance of service & thanks which with humble Duty to my Dear
Mother & Love to my Children conclude
I am Dear Mother
Your most Obedient
Daughter
Elisa Jeake

Mr Millers & Madams Service to you all Include niece for I esteem her one of
my Dear children. Love to the maids."	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	104				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_265	ESRO FRE 5343	[265] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 31 May 1701. Original letter.	286	Elisa Jeake		"Dear Mother
Your most Obedient
Daughter
Love to the maids"	London May 31* 1701				"London May 31* 1701

I rejoyce Dear Mother to hear of your & my little tribes good health which I
pray God continue I canot conveniently pay good wife Davids bill for good wife
Seals will if I can but do not promise the last ten pounds if Betty send her gown
wou'd have her send the lining & petticoat belonging to it as well as the other. I
was too late for the carrier this week or I had sent Marys gown petticoat &
aprons a maker she may better fit her Lace with at Rye I shall send the things
needful by Tenterden carrier good wife Seals commissions will take care of. I
can say little of Mr Benge's & my business only Mr Short is come to town & the
other gone out but comes next week again. I have made no visits yet the weather
has been so bad & of buying part not yet quite over Mackrel are here 7 d per
piece & cherry 2 p penny. My most Humble Duty to your Dear self, real Love
to my children and service to the Dr with the rest of my friends I am

Dear Mother

Your most Obedient

Daughter

Elisa Jeake

Love to the maids"	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	211				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_266	ESRO FRE 5344	[266] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 3 June 1701. Original letter.	286	E. Jeake		"Dear Mother your most obed{ient]
Daughter"	"London June the 3"" 1701"				"London June the 3"" 1701

I am sorry Dear Mother I incurre so much displeasure for my good will I
know of no advantage I shall reap by what I buy for people my readiness to
serve 'em should not encourage em to be to severe on me for 'tis most certain
if greater motives than those commissions received had not induc'd me to go
for London I shou'd not have been there on purpose for their occasions my
Aunts Lace I bought long agoe as likewise cousin's stuffe but for making it up
I never understood twas to be done here nor canit be unlesse her stays were
with me I shall send it the week with Mary Jones's. I wish I could as easily
dispatch my affairs which are of more importance but I know not what to do
'tis necessary for it to be done whilst I am here but the advances are small &
since my Dear Mother & Children are at Rye I can do no other than with my
self which em that I might shew my self

Dear Mother your most obed{ient]

Daughter

E. Jeake
I have my nieces her mother promise to see & thank her for her pretty Letter
I think I have a stronger tye to be serviceable to her than to any other. Your
Dear Self & my children excepted. Let her not be dis[quietJed I hope always
to acquit my self her friend. My Duty Love & Service where due. Cherrys
four [words lost]"	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	256				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_267	ESRO FRE 5345	[267] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 7 June? 1701. Original letter.	287	"Daughter
Elisa Jeake"		"Dear Mother
Your most Obedient
Love to the maids"		"Saturday the 7"" 1701"			"I saw Mr Benge Dear Mother yesterday but from what he says never take
direction and have not heard from Mr Short but am in daily expectation I
shall acquaint you with what he says and what hopes there is of a conclusion
which I earnestly desire to be rid of so troublesum an affair & because I might
then speed home which I would gladly do to my Dear Mother and children
which are the only tyes to engage me to Rye. I shall be glad to hear you have
received the things safe per Tenterden Carrier Mrs Seal doth not say what she
would have instead of her carnation Tape excuse brevity for I am in great hast
and can add no more than my humble Duty to my Dear Mother with Love to
my little creatures & service to my friends as if particularised [words struck
out] Mr Miller & his Lady present their service to my Mother I am

Dear Mother

Your most Obedient

Daughter

Elisa Jeake
Saturday the 7"" 1701
Love to the maids"	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	179				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_268	ESRO FRE 5346	[268] Elizabeth ( Betty) Jeake junior to Elizabeth Jeake, 1701, undated. Original letter.	287	Dau E J.		I have not had opportunity to enquire of your health since his return.					"We received the things Dear Mother for which we remark our hearty thanks.
I have sent my things viz gown & petticoats & linen by Chiswell be will be at
London shortly the things will be left at Mrs Tompkins I would pray you to
remember a pair of shoes for Sam Mrs Young desires you to buy her knots.
Mary Jones: gives her service & thanks for buying her things which she likes
extraordinaryly & desires you to send her word concerning her hood &
Sarah's trunk my Grandmothers love & she prays you buy her a pair of shoes
I have almost worn out mine I desire you to send me word who all them sad
couller gloves are for & whether you had not a pair of my cousins sent us with
your gown lineing. My cousin Mary desires her petticoat to be made her
everyday petticoat is a yard & 2 half long. I should be glad if you'd please to
send my dust gown & [word illegible] or fan with it I received my night raile*
wich I like very well & return my humble thanks for them. If you have the 2
pair of parl nippers with you desire canst send me one pair for J can find none
& Sam in great want. All our serv to the family I am & in your most Dutiful
Dau E J.

I have not had opportunity to enquire of your health since his return.

To Mrs Jeake at Mr Tho: Miller's merchant in London"	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	259		To Mrs Jeake at Mr Tho: Miller’s merchant in London		1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE JUNIOR	ELIZABETH JEAKE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1688	1680-1720	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	FALSE	21	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE JUNIOR"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_269	ESRO FRE 5347	[269] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 17 June 1701. Original letter.	288	Elisa Jeake		"Your most obedient Daughter
Twill not I hope surprise my mother to tell her my Christian name is changed
since my surname is still Jeake and I am wrote Elisha"	"London June the 17"" 1701"			"** OED, n. a loose wrap or dressing gown, worn after undressing or before dressing, usually by a
woman."	"London June the 17"" 1701
I desire Dear Mother that good wife Seal would let me know how much is due
to Mr Lock he charges more than she gave me he charges a parcel may the
23th which makes 9s 3d more than the bill she gave me there is nothing due
for changing Laces I shall not clear off the account 'till I hear from her I have
ordered her sope there is some more than what she appointed of which will
give account for at my return. I have paid the old debt which was with the
confectioners goods is ordered to Mr Wilmots likewise I shall go thither presently
if he be at home order what things she desires from him. I have a letter
from Mrs Cross & shall I hope have the Satisfaction of terminating that long
business if Mary Jones can buy her alamode hood at Rye twill be best so to
do I send per Mr Chiswell's Hoy Sarah's Trunk & Broom besides what shall
order from Mr Wilmots but let not Sarah desire to have her Trunk open
before I come & I charge Mrs Bettys impatience to let it alone for I have the
Keys with me on purpose to secure it till I come. I hope according to the old
saying these few lines will find you all in good health as I am at this present
writing thanks be to God. My humble Duty with Love & service as you judge

necessary concludes this Dear Mother from
Your most obedient Daughter

Elisa Jeake

Twill not I hope surprise my mother to tell her my Christian name is changed
since my surname is still Jeake and I am wrote Elisha"	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	291				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_270	ESRO FRE 5348	[270] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 1701, undated. Original letter.	289	Elisha Jeake		[Wed]nesday past 10 at night.				"""The Window Tax was the successor to the Hearth Tax and was introduced in 1696. M. J.
Braddick, The Nerves of State: Taxation and the financing of the English state, 15581714
(Manchester, 1996), 103."	"You cannot be more desirous to see me Dear Mother than I am to return] am
under a great perplexity Mr Benge's business moves so slowly tis no fault of
mine for they both know me to be in Town that I wait on purpose for em
which is all I can do. For what people at Rye say I look on ill their chimeras
as with that indifference I ought have been so accustomed to be [word illegible]
Ican take it without any concern for whilst they have no reason to discant
upon my actions I care not what they say only wish for their sakes they would
not endeavour to make lyes pass for truth & I am sure this is most abominable
falsitie its probable after all Mr Tucker is in no want of a wife especially of
other peoples chusing but be it how it will as I came out Betty Jeake so there
isno danger but I shall if providence blesse me with life & health return with
the same name it is most certain if any body was so mad to take me with my
two pair of illmatched clogs I shall not be so eager to dispose of my Person
without the approbation or knowledge of so good a mother as is mine please
to buy Sam a pair of shoes will you & I will do so too I believe I did pay
Hunsder & Miller the window Tax"" but whether there may be another half
year I know not due since however it be tis not I think usual to pay more than
half a year at a time & that's but five shillings. Remember me to Betty & tell
her I hope she will supply my place in Love & Duty to you in my absence &
not desire to go much out & especially on the Sabbath Day no more than to
church & home again above all I would not have her go to Mrs Shephards
shop if she be good to you & keep my Dear mother company she shall los

nothing by it at my return let Mary Jones remember to get me the receipt fo.
the Itch my Duty to Love & Service Dear Mother as it properly belongs I beg
you to accompt & dispose of from Dear Mother what ever the mistaken
world suggest not only your most obedient Daughter but

Elisha Jeake

[Wed]nesday past 10 at night."	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	415				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_271	ESRO FRE 5349	[271] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 1701, undated. Original letter.	290	Elisha Jeake	Mother	"Your ever Dutifu[]]
Daughter
Thursday past 6
I will be sure to remember your purse I write no treason nor think no harm if
pryers find any in what I write the old motto be their portion: evil to em that
evil think."					"Mother
I perceive my dame designes to try that hard countrey again I wish her the
success she proposes I will mind her quillt & blanket the other things are on
board the Hoy The windows I promise shou'd be mended so far as was needed
but in regard they have but 4 the house hope they won't expect all the glass
repaired what is necessary am willing should be done & no more for will be all
lost when I repair the house. There is neither silver gold nor precious stones
in the Trunk but yet I wou'd have it safe as if the treasure of the Indies were
contained in it by this I raise expectation but indeed there is nothing of any
considerable value but such little things & papers they are as would be troublesom
to me to repair if lost I shall heartily rejoyce in my return because tis the
habitation of my Dear Mother & children. Mr Short is now in town but goes
out to morrow but says this Term will undoubtedly conclude this long tedious
affair. I shall send cousins gown & petticoat to morrow morning & for Betty's
Dust gown tell her I designe my silk one for her I cou'd not please my self in
a new one for her nor shou'd I have bought her so good I do not promise her
the Ribbands nor need she take em of before I come home. I cannot help the
woman's not coming so soon I saw my Cousin last week she is in daily expectation
of her heaven send her a good hour and mary a good place pray mother
don't let your Oranges rot for want of eating nor the cakes stale. Mr Millers
& his Ladys service with my Duty, Love & Service to you all is what offers
from Dear Mother .

Your ever Dutifu[]]

Daughter

Elisha Jeake

Thursday past 6

I will be sure to remember your purse I write no treason nor think no harm if
pryers find any in what I write the old motto be their portion: evil to em that
evil think."	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	360				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_272	ESRO FRE 5350	[272] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 21 June 1701. Original letter.	290	Elisha Jeake		"My most humble Duty to my Dear Mother, love to the little cubbs service to
my friends & Love to the maids."	London June the 21* 1701				"London June the 21* 1701
Yesterday Dear Mother I sent Cousin Marys gown and petticoat which I
hope will prove to her satisfaction. I put up a pair of shoes for niece Bab for
sumer & a pair of winter shoes for Bab Jeake but the main cargo is in the
trunk since my last I cannot give you a further account of business having
heard nothing of the matter but I am in great hopes twill be ended this Term
I beg Dear Mother you wou'd not expect a longer account from me now than
that am well and your most obedient Daughter

Elisha Jeake
My most humble Duty to my Dear Mother, love to the little cubbs service to
my friends & Love to the maids."	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	128				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_273	Original letter. ESRO FRE 5351	[273] Elizabeth (Betty) Jeake junior and Barbara Hartshorne to Elizabeth Jeake, 1701, undated.	291	Hartshorne		"from her who is thy
loveing Mother Barbara"					"Dear Mother this is to inform you of our welfare my aunt gives you many
thanks for her lace which she likes extraordinary well. I did not desire you to
& make a particular paquet of those things I pray'd you to send with cousin
Mary but to put them up with hers & I believe they are so light they won't
make her pay any thing the more for carriage for her things I am to take care
to send them to Hawkhearst whither she went last week. My Grandmother
Who gives her love to you would have you buy cousin Bab (who gives her
service to you) a pair of collered gloves. I desire to know whether I must make
my night rails without hallowing away before or if as usual. my scarfe is all to
peices. Mary Jones gives her service to you & desires you to send her word
concerning a hood. Mr & Mrs Tucker give their service & think your stay
long. Humble duty to my [word illegible] from your ever Lo dau E J.

I be just going to fishing

My Dear goodi Seal desires thee to buy her a good large white Blanket anda
quilt for her bed she gives her service to thee tels thee if thou doest not make
hast home she will be gone before thou comest to Stone & suppose if thou
stay this twelve moneth one or other will finde business...but the french doe
much desire thee to let the glassier to mend their windows they say thou didest
promise them it should be done. Mary Jones is much out of patience the
woman doth not send to her yet remember me a purse. Old and young Mrs
Tucker Doctr Young and his wife Mrs Waters, Betty & Bab are gone to fishing
this afternoon. Betty bids me finish her letter. I hope thou hast noe great
tresure in the trunck but the last letter was opened. Send noe wafer. Thy longe
stay is very troublesom to me my kind and harty servis to Mr and Madam
Miller not forgetting the good old gentleman my dear love to thy selfe
from her who is thy
loveing Mother Barbara
Hartshorne

To Mrs Elisha: Jeake at Mr Thomas Millers Merchant in Mincing Lane in
Dunster Court, London, these"	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	389		"To Mrs Elisha: Jeake at Mr Thomas Millers Merchant in Mincing Lane in
Dunster Court, London, these"		1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE JUNIOR	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1688	1680-1720	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE JUNIOR"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_274	ESRO FRE 5352	[274] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 26 June? 1701. Original letter.	292	Elisa Jeake		"Your ever dutiful
Daughter
And love to the Maids."	"London the 26"" 1701"				"London the 26"" 1701

I have at last Dear Mother gotten a fair account from Mrs Crosse & Mr
Miller has an order from her to pay what remaine in her hand if it please God
to give me as fair a deliverance from Mr Benge I shall heartily rejoyce I live in
hopes this Term will conclude this business as luckily as that Exon is ended I
saw Old Grayburn here but did not pay his Daughter's forty shillings he haying
no order from her to receive it She is almost of age of which I am glad. I
wish my Dame soft dealings in the hard Countrey and you Dear Mother
health and long life my Humble Duty Dear Mother to your Dear Self love to
my Dear little children & service to my Friends tell the Dr he was not so good
as his word to his servant

Your ever dutiful

Daughter

Elisa Jeake
And love to the Maids."	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	162				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_275	ESRO FRE 5353	[275] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 28 June 1701. Original letter.	292	Elisa Jeake		"Dear Mother
Your most obedient
Daughter
1701 Love to the maids."		"Saturday June the 28"""			"Yours Dear Mother I received am sorry to hear you are so much alone. I hope
in a short time I shall have the satisfaction of seeing you and my Dear Children
Mr Benge has given Mr Miller a Bill for £200 which he has received this day
so there is now some hopes there will be an end of that tedious business. For
your money when I come home will give you an account what I have done the
business will be free for you still if you approve it tis not in the govenment. I
wish the Bride joy now she has left me she is out of fear of my leaving of her
Bettys journey is an unimpeded frolick. I am sorry to hear Sarah makes out
so badly I hope when return to quicken her or get another. Marys Mrs is not
brought to bed as I hear she thinks the time long as Mary can do I add no
more but humble Duty to your Dear Self with Love to my children and
service to my friends I am
Dear Mother
Your most obedient
Daughter

Elisa Jeake
Saturday June the 28""

1701 Love to the maids."	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	201				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_276	ESRO FRE 5354	[276] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 1701 undated. Original letter.	293	Elisa Jeake		"Dear Mother
Your obedient
Daughter
Thursday night"					"My last I think acquainted you Dear Mother with what preparation Mr
Benge had made for the conclusion of that affair I am really impatient of my
long stay & earnestly desire a dispatch that I might return to my Dear Mother
& children whom I ardently wish to see the term draws towards an end so that
I shall in a few days know whether twill be done now or no my Humble Duty
to your Dear Selfe, my little Dear children with Love & Service where you
think convenient I am
Dear Mother
Your obedient
Daughter
Elisa Jeake

Thursday night"	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	102				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_277	ESRO FRE 5355	[277] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 3 July 1701. Original letter.	293	Elisa Jeake		Your most dutiful Daughter	London the 3” of July 1701				"London the 3"" of July 1701
Your express your self Dear Mother to be tired with providing answers and I
am as weary of writing since I cannot fix the day of my departure I gave you
what account I could of the matter that stays me I have wrote to Mr Short but
no return yet I have this day seen Madam Fouché & Mrs Paine Madam
Fouché presents her service to you her Husband is gone into Holland to see
his sons. Madam Miller is indisposed & has been thus these 5 or 6 days 4
faintness [all] over her no appetite a disorder in her head pardon Dear Mother
my brevity Mr Miller is newly gone out and Madam is alone which I am
unwilling she shou'd whilst I am here. Duty, Love & Service Dear Mother
accept & dispose of as you please from

Your most dutiful Daughter

Elisa Jeake"	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	154				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_278	ESRO FRE 5356	[278] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 4 July 1701. Original letter.	294	Elisa Jeake		"Dear Mother
Your most obedient
Daughter"	"London July the 4"""				"London July the 4""
Think not Dear Mother I will prolong my stay farther than necessary I think
the time long till I see you all again which I hope it will please God to grant
me in a little time I earnestly desired to know how Sams hat fitted & Bettys
thoughts are so filled with her admirer it justles other things quite out for the
Coats I can have remedied by the maker here who had rather do it her self
than any body else should for sending any thing down before I come would
not have it desired it is sufficient have bought all the things they send for &
hope to see 'em safe att Rye. I have been at the exchequer once & next week
must go again some other business have to disput & shall return I fear I shall
make no merchandize of my shells nor other advantage than being stiled a
Philosopher for my learned talk be shewed the rarities at Gresham College &
have the honour to be acquainted with a fellow of the Royal Society The King
is gone this day in order to go for Holland. Cherrys are three farthings a
pound my unfeigned Duty to my Dear Mother & tender Love to my sweet
children & niece I hope the Oranges were not rot & that my Dear little Frank
can make a shift by this to eat a sugar cake I have bought him three caps I
have bought all the maids desired service to the Dr Mrs Geer has not been
sick nor did the Child receive any damage in their journey more than that of
being thorough wet which they were all of in I am

Dear Mother

Your most obedient

Daughter

Elisa Jeake

To Mrs Barbara Hartshorne at Rye in Sussex"	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	307		To Mrs Barbara Hartshorne at Rye in Sussex		1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_279	ESRO FRE 5357	[279] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 1701, undated. Original letter.	294	Elisa Jeake		"Your most obedient Daughter
My Duty Love & Service where due"					"You see Dear Mother as it is my Duty to inviolably observe your commands
having not missed one post since I came heare I wish I had more considerable
opportunities of shewing my Love & obedience to so indulgent a Mother as
mine I am under a real perplexity about my return I can give no further
account of my business than what I have already done I think to have lawyers
put into the litany is very necessary their proceedings are so tedious & I
believe I am none of the greatest sufferers by them neither. Madam Miller
continues ill, she presents her service to you & Betty. I would have her send me
the gallon [words illegible] if it be sweet per carrier next week. I wish I could
say I expect to see you at the end of it my utmost diligence shall not be wanting
to lay hold on the first opportunity of shewing you Dear Mother
Your most obedient Daughter
Elisa Jeake
My Duty Love & Service where due"	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	174				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_280	ESRO FRE 5358	[280] Elizabeth Jeake to Barbara Hartshorne, 8 July 1701. Original letter,	295	Elisa Jeake		"Dear Mother
Your dutiful Daughter"		"Tuesday the 8"" of July 1701"			"Tuesday the 8"" of July 1701
At last Dear Mother I have done with Mr Benge for the present in order to
conclude the affair & my presence is no longer necessary on that score I
therefore entreat you will please to send horses for me to Tunbridge on Friday.
I have taken a Place in the coach for that day that I may if God permit be at
home on Saturday I wou'd have the Horses early in at Tunbridge Friday
[word struck out] afternoon that they may rest against I come for if I come
thither in any tolerable time designe to pursue my journey that I may have
some thing the less for Saturday 'tis long since I heard from my Dear Mother
but hope now to see her and my Dear children in a short time I am with due
remembrances

Dear Mother
Your dutiful Daughter
Elisa Jeake"	Elizabeth in London, 1701	ENGLISH	152				1701	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA HARTSHORNE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	UNK	1600-1640	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA HARTSHORNE"""
j_281		"[281] Will of Barbara Hartshorne TNA, PROB 11/502/107"""	295							"*The Rye Parish Registers record Barbara's burial on 13 February 1707.
*Nathaniel Hartshorne's widow. There are no further mentions of Anne in the Jeake or Tucker
papers.
*Betty Jeake, now married.
* Nathaniel Hartshorne's daughter. Likewise there are no further records of Barbara in the Jeake
or Tucker papers,"		Death of Barbara Hartshorne, February 1707	ENGLISH																					
j_282	ESRO FRE 5378	[282] Francis Jeake to Elizabeth Tucker (Jeake), 10 March 1709/10. Original letter.	298	Francis Jeake		Your dutiful son					"Hon: M{oth]er Tenterden Mar: the 10: 1709/10
I make [word lost] to trouble you with these few lines, hoping they will find
you in good health, as I am at this present. I desire you to send me a Greek
Grammar for I have great need of it. We received no letter last week, pray
send mea line by the Carrier. I desire to know how you & the rest of the family
do. Pray give my duty to my Father, & love to my Brother & Sisters, I am
Your dutiful son
Francis Jeake

To Madam Tucker a Rye in Sussex"	Death of Barbara Hartshorne, February 1707	ENGLISH	102		To Madam Tucker a Rye in Sussex		1712	FRANCIS JEAKE	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1700	1680-1720	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	33	TRUE	"""FRANCIS JEAKE"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_283	RMA, Selmes Manuscripts, RYEYT N39.59.1	[283] Francis Jeake to Elizabeth Tucker, 18 July 1712. Original letter.	298	Francis Jeake	Hon: Mother	Your dutifull Son	Tenterden July 18 1712				"Hon: Mother

I desire you to send me one word how you got home last Saturday & about

what time. Pray send me some paper for I have not one quarter of a sheet.

Pray give my duty to my Father, & my love to my Brother & Sisters. I am
Your dutifull Son
Francis Jeake

Tenterden July 18 1712

To Madam Tucker at Rye Sussex"	Death of Barbara Hartshorne, February 1707	ENGLISH	66		To Madam Tucker at Rye Sussex		1712	FRANCIS JEAKE	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1700	1680-1720	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	33	TRUE	"""FRANCIS JEAKE"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_284	RMA, Selmes Manuscripts, RYEYT N39.59.3	[284] Francis Jeake to Joseph Tucker, 3 December 1714. Original letter.	299	Francis Jeake	Sr	Your Obedient Son and Servant	Tenterden December 3 1714				"Sr
The manifold Kindnesses and Obligations which I have received at your
hands put on me no small concern that I am not able to repay them at present
however as a mean requital I dedicate my first fruits to you, begging that you
would please accept of them, 'till I am in a better Capacity to make a more
suitable return to you, and in the mean time assure yourself That my endeayours
to make you amends shall not be wanting. This Sr emboldens me to
present these Lines to you, desiring you would accept the same from
Your Obedient Son and Servant
Francis Jeake

Tenterden December 3 1714

To Mr Joseph Tucker at Rye Sussex"	Death of Barbara Hartshorne, February 1707	ENGLISH	117		To Mr Joseph Tucker at Rye Sussex		1714	FRANCIS JEAKE	JOSEPH TUCKER	MALE	MALE	1700	1680-1720	UNK	1640-1680	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""FRANCIS JEAKE"", ""JOSEPH TUCKER"""
j_285	ESRO FRE 5379	[285] Francis Jeake to Joseph Tucker, 18 July 1716. Original letter.	299	Francis Jeake	Hon: Sir	"Your Dutiful Son & Servant
I Like my Place very well as yet
Mr Slade gives his service to you & my Mother, & my Brother remembers to
you all."	"London July the 18"" 1716"			"* William Paul, a Jacobite, hung, drawn and quartered at Tyburn on 13 July 1716. Robert D.
Cornwall, 'Paul, William (bap. 1679, d. 1716)', ODNB."	"London July the 18"" 1716
Hon: Sir
I hope this Letter which brings you the news of my safe Arrival here (that
Day that I parted from you) about 3 a Clock, may be answered with the
agreable news of your and my Mothers Safe Arrival at Rye and finding the
family well. Whether this be news to you or no I cannot tell, as such I write it,
viz That as Parson Paul"" was riding to Tyburn a man in a certain house in
Holborn threw some dirt at him and hit him whereupon the Parson pulled off
his Hat & said Sir I Thank you, upon which the Mob rose & had seized the
Fellow had he not been carried off with a Guard, and finding they could not
come at him they brake all the Windows in the House, & they were fore'd to
set a Guard upon the House all that night for fear of its being demolished as
the Mob threatened to do; likewise when they were at Tyburn the Mob began
to be insolent, upon which an Officer who was there drew his Sword & cut
one fellow (who was more insolent than the Rest) severely, upon which
Wholsome Severity the Mob presently vanished. July the 13"" last being
Sunday a certain man in Moorfields who had a Place in the Pay Office hanged
himself in his Garret. He had been melancholy for some time before. But least
I should trespass upon your Patience I shall conclude (with Presenting my
Duty to you & my Mother, my Love to my Sisters & my Remembrances to all
my friends) subscribing my self
Your Dutiful Son & Servant
Francis Jeake

I Like my Place very well as yet

Mr Slade gives his service to you & my Mother, & my Brother remembers to
you all.

To Mr Joseph Tucker at Rye, with care, in Sussex"	Death of Barbara Hartshorne, February 1707	ENGLISH	319		To Mr Joseph Tucker at Rye, with care, in Sussex		1716	FRANCIS JEAKE	JOSEPH TUCKER	MALE	MALE	1700	1680-1720	UNK	1640-1680	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""FRANCIS JEAKE"", ""JOSEPH TUCKER"""
j_286	RMA, Selmes Manuscripts, RYEYT N39.59.2	[286] Francis Jeake to Elizabeth Tucker and Barbara Jeake, 8 August 1716. Original letter.	300	"Francis Jeake
Francis Jeake"	"Hon: Mother
Dear Sister"	"Your dutifull son
My Brother remembers to you all.
Your Loving Brother
[like my place very well.
Pray give my Duty to my Father & remember me to all my Friends at Rye.
Please to give my Love to Sister Phill & tell her I expect her to perform her
promise.
I have now sent per Carrier
Ipair of Shoes
% oz of Gold thread
Wallers Poems"	"London August the 8"""" 1716
London August the 8"" 1716"				"Hon: Mother
I have now sent Mrs Bishop's shoes which I had sent by Mr Slade had I
known of his being in Town soon enough, for I knew of it but on Wednes
Tuesday in the afternoon & he went away a Wednesday morning; The
Shoemaker said that perhaps the shoes might be lost out of the parcel as it
went down & that then there was no reason he shou'd lose a pair of shoes, But
if on the contrary he had emitt omitted 'em he was sorry for it, & would willingly
make 'em up whereupon he gave me the shoes which I here send. I have
been likewise with the Gold thread man & bought 4 ounce for which I gave
2s whether I have done well or ill therein I know not I can only say I got it as
cheap as I cou'd & I hope I have pleased you therein. Mr Hudson hath sent
the whole piece of Linsey per Hoy which he chargeth at 30s & he saith that if
you have not occasion for it all you may use so much as you want & send him
back the rest. My Brother having seen the letter which you wrote to me last
says that he wrote a letter to you about coming into the country; but however
I am of opinion that if you wrote a Letter to the Dr he would willingly enough
come. The Town is very barren of news nor have I much time to enquire after
any. I must ask your pardon for troubling you with such long impertinence &
bad writing but I hope your goodness will excuse it both & that you will
believe ('till I forfeit that Opinion) that I am

Your dutifull son

Francis Jeake
London August the 8"""" 1716
My Brother remembers to you all.

Dear Sister

I have according to your desire bought you Waller's Poems"" for which I gave
2s. I would fain have got it cheaper but could not, however I think it is as good
as mine which cost 2s 6d. If at any time you have any business wherein I can
be serviceable to you; Please to let me know it and it shall be willingly performed
by

Your Loving Brother
Francis Jeake

London August the 8"" 1716
[like my place very well.
Pray give my Duty to my Father & remember me to all my Friends at Rye.

Please to give my Love to Sister Phill & tell her I expect her to perform her
promise.

I have now sent per Carrier
Ipair of Shoes

% oz of Gold thread
Wallers Poems

To Madam Tucker at Rye in Sussex"	Death of Barbara Hartshorne, February 1707	ENGLISH	453		To Madam Tucker at Rye in Sussex		1716	FRANCIS JEAKE	ELIZABETH TUCKER AND BARBARA JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1700	1680-1720	MULT	MULT	FAMILY	MULT	MULT	FALSE	MULT		UNK	"""FRANCIS JEAKE"", ""ELIZABETH TUCKER AND BARBARA JEAKE"""
j_287	ESRO FRE 5380	[287] Francis Jeake to Joseph Tucker, 15 August 1716. Original letter.	301	Francis Jeake	Honoured Sir	"Your dutiful Son & Servant
The City is very quiet not a Dog moving his Tongue against the Government.
My Brother remembers to you all."	"London August the 15"" 1716"			"3Probably Edmund Waller whose work was published in at least 4 editions during the 1660s and
1680s and was widely read during the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries. Warren
Chernaik, 'Waller, Edmund (16061687)
, ODNB."	"London August the 15"" 1716
Honoured Sir
After a Tryall of 5 Weeks, I liking my place I have engrossed my Indentures
which I have now sent to you. If you please to sign them & send them up, they
shall be deposited either in Mr Vandyke's Hands or mine (as you shall judge
convenient) till the other are sent to you. Pray date the Indentures the same
Day you sign 'em otherwise there is a £500 penalty. Pray give my respects to
all my Friends but especially to my Mother & Sisters; I am

Your dutiful Son & Servant
Francis Jeake

The City is very quiet not a Dog moving his Tongue against the Government.
My Brother remembers to you all.

To Mr Joseph Tucker at Rye, with a parcell, with Care, in Sussex"	Death of Barbara Hartshorne, February 1707	ENGLISH	135		To Mr Joseph Tucker at Rye, with a parcell, with Care, in Sussex		1716	FRANCIS JEAKE	JOSEPH TUCKER	MALE	MALE	1700	1680-1720	UNK	1640-1680	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""FRANCIS JEAKE"", ""JOSEPH TUCKER"""
j_288	ESRO FRE 5381	[288] Francis Jeake to Joseph Tucker, 1 September 1716. Original letter.	302	"Francis Jeake
Francis Jeake"	"Honoured Sir,
Honoured Mother"	"Your dutiful Son & Servant
Your dutifull Son
My Brother is very well who joyns with me in Remembrances to the whole
Family."	"London: Saturday Sept. 1* 1716
London Sept. 1° 1716"				"Honoured Sir,
I once more give you the trouble of a Letter (per Post) to let you know that
this day the Indentures were signed & the £125 paid. I received the residue of
the £133: 19 being £8: 9 whereof £6:5 is to be paid to the King, the other £2:14
shall be disposed of by me as you shall please to order. So Sir presenting my
humble duty to my Mother, my Love to my 2 Sisters, & to you (for your great
kindness to me) my hearty & sincere Thanks (which I confess is but small
amends) I subscribe my self
Your dutiful Son & Servant

Francis Jeake

London: Saturday Sept. 1* 1716

Honoured Mother
I have (I must confess) too long neglected writing to you but I hope you will
not account it out of any disrespect to you. God forbid that I should be guilty
of such a Crime. I have not as yet received any Accompt from Rye whether
you received the things which I sent by the Carrier about a month agoe viz. A
oz. of Gold thread, Mrs Bishop's Child's Shoes & Wallers Poems. I have
nothing more to say at present but that I am
London Sept. 1° 1716
Your dutifull Son
Francis Jeake
My Brother is very well who joyns with me in Remembrances to the whole
Family.

To Mr Joseph Tucker at Rye, Sussex"	Death of Barbara Hartshorne, February 1707	ENGLISH	235		To Mr Joseph Tucker at Rye, Sussex		1716	FRANCIS JEAKE	JOSEPH TUCKER	MALE	MALE	1700	1680-1720	UNK	1640-1680	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""FRANCIS JEAKE"", ""JOSEPH TUCKER"""
j_289	RMA, Selmes Manuscripts, RYEYT N39.59.4	[289] Francis Jeake to Joseph Tucker, 12 September 1716. Original letter.	303	Francis Jeake	Honoured Sir	"Your dutifull Son & Servant
My Brother gives his respects to you all.
Tho' I am very sorry to hear that Mr Waters is failed yet it would be some
satisfaction to me to hear something of the particulars & what will become of
his Wife & children."	"London Wednesday Sept. 12"""				"Honoured Sir
Yesterday being Tuesday I went to pay the Duty where they made me pay 6s
7d more than we reckon'd For they said that your paying the duty was equivalent
to giving my Master so much mony, & necessity having no law I were
forced to pay it; they taxed the £6 5s at Is per £ which came to six shillings &
three pence, then they taxed the 6s 3d so the produce of that till they could
bring it no lower, so that I paid in all £6 11s 7d & have by me still £2 7s 5d.
This Sir I thought fit to let you know, which my hearty respects to my Mother
& my Sisters concludes this epistle from

Your dutifull Son & Servant

Francis Jeake
London Wednesday Sept. 12""

My Brother gives his respects to you all.

Tho' I am very sorry to hear that Mr Waters is failed yet it would be some
satisfaction to me to hear something of the particulars & what will become of
his Wife & children.

To Mr Joseph Tucker at Rye with a parcel in Sussex"	Death of Barbara Hartshorne, February 1707	ENGLISH	190		To Mr Joseph Tucker at Rye with a parcel in Sussex		1716	FRANCIS JEAKE	JOSEPH TUCKER	MALE	MALE	1700	1680-1720	UNK	1640-1680	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""FRANCIS JEAKE"", ""JOSEPH TUCKER"""
j_290	ESRO FRE 5382	[290] Francis Jeake to Joseph Tucker, 22 September 1716. Original letter.	303	Francis Jeake	Honoured Sir,	"Your dutifull Son & Servant
I received Broth: Joseph's Epistle. I have now sent the Ordinary's Accts of the
Rioters."""	London Saturday Sept. 22 1716				"London Saturday Sept. 22 1716
Honoured Sir,
I went yesterday to Mr Gybbon, who happened to be gone out, so to day
morning I went again, & went very luckily, for the man who had the Bill from
Mr Sharp came within two minutes after me, so I received the money which I
paid to my Brother, & the Bill which J now send you. Mr Gybbon gives his
Service to you, my Mother & Sister, & says that he would have writ this Post
but that I writ, & he having no business will defer it till another time. His
Lady too gives her remembrances to the Family. She looks very big upon one,
but is very brisk and well. Yesterday the 5 Rioters were hanged against
Salisbury Court in FleetStreet,
* where was a vast Croud of Spectators; The
poor deluded Populace (after they were hanged) cut off Chips from the
Gallows which they sold for half pence or pence apiece to keep as Relicts of
such pious martyrs of their Cause. That same Day also the Sign of the
Roebuck was erected in Cheapside as likewise the Sign of the Mug under
which is writ the Loyal Society of the Mug house which some poor wretches
have peppered with dirt. I am very sorry to hear of the Chimmney's fall. The
wind did no damage at London (Thanks be to God). My Brother is very well
who joyns, in remembering to you all, with

Your dutifull Son & Servant

Francis Jeake

I received Broth: Joseph's Epistle. I have now sent the Ordinary's Accts of the
Rioters."""	Death of Barbara Hartshorne, February 1707	ENGLISH	269				1716	FRANCIS JEAKE	JOSEPH TUCKER	MALE	MALE	1700	1680-1720	UNK	1640-1680	FAMILY	UNK	UNK	FALSE	UNK		UNK	"""FRANCIS JEAKE"", ""JOSEPH TUCKER"""
j_291	ESRO FRE 5383	[291] Francis Jeake to Elizabeth Tucker, 31 October 1716. Original letter.	304	Francis Jeake	Honoured Madam,	"Your dutifull Son & Servant
I sent a Letter last week which had nothing in it materiall but my hearty
thanks to my Father for his Care & trouble about the things last mencioned
which I now reitorate.
My Brother joyns with me in presenting our Devoirs to the whole family."	London October 31* 1716			"*The riot in question took place on 24 July 1716. It involved an attack on Mr Read's Mug House
in Salisbury Court near Fleet Street. Witnesses recorded that the rioters, John Love, Thomas
Bean, George Purchase, Richard Price and William Price broke windows, took down and
destroyed the Mug House sign and destroyed household goods and papers. The Old Bailey
Proceedings do not record the motivation for the attack but record the rioters as having cried
""High Church and Ormond. No Hanoverian, No King George, Down with the Mughouse
'
suggesting that they were Jacobite sympathisers or, at least, that the riot had been instigated by
Jacobite sympathisers. Love was a dock worker, William Price an apprentice sword cutler,
Richard Price a Welsh tailor who had come to London seeking work, Purchase a journeyman
shoemaker
and Bean a servant to a gentleman who had been involved in the 1715 Jacobite
rebellion. OBP, September 1716, Trial of John Love, Thomas Bean, George Purchase, Richard
Price, William Price (t171609062)
; OBP, Ordinary of Newgate's Account, 21 September 1716
(0OA17160921).
OBP; OA17160921."	"To Madam Tucker at Rye, Sussex, with a parcel.

London October 31* 1716
Honoured Madam,
I received yours this day; Thanks be to God IJ have my health very well; As to
my liking of my Place, though some things occur not very pleasing yet they
are trivial and scarce worth the mencioning so that I hope & entreat you
(since I do not) not to make your self uneasy at it; For when I first went there
I did not expect to find it as I did at home; I believe indeed there are better
places and I believe there are worse then since I have not met with one of the
latter the best way is to rest contented as doth
Your dutifull Son & Servant

Francis Jeake

I sent a Letter last week which had nothing in it materiall but my hearty
thanks to my Father for his Care & trouble about the things last mencioned
which I now reitorate.

My Brother joyns with me in presenting our Devoirs to the whole family."	Death of Barbara Hartshorne, February 1707	ENGLISH	176		To Madam Tucker at Rye, Sussex, with a parcel.		1716	FRANCIS JEAKE	ELIZABETH JEAKE	MALE	FEMALE	1700	1680-1720	1667	1640-1680	FAMILY	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	33	TRUE	"""FRANCIS JEAKE"", ""ELIZABETH JEAKE"""
j_292	ESRO FRE 5387	[292] Elizabeth Tucker to Barbara Jeake, 23 June 1716. Original letter.	305	E Tucker		"My Dear
Your truly loving
Mother"	"Rye June the 23"" 1719"				"Rye June the 23"" 1719
I told my Dear Bab Father was returned ill from his journey, he was indeed
extreamly out of Order Saturday & Sabath day but yesterday I bless God he
was something better & is rather better today he was full of pain in all his
Limbs & yesterday began to be out of order in his stomach brought up what
he took which was but little & a considerable quantity of Phlegm his stomach
is mighty qualmy still but he is not so much enfeebled to day as before. Father
would have Brother call at Mr Falkner's the upper end of abbchurch lane &
get such a silver watch chain as that he had of him when in Town about seven
or eight shillings to pay for it to tell Mr Falkner Father hopes he will not make
him give dearer than when in Town 'Tis for Capt Pigrams new watch. I shall
be glad to hear when you will come home begin to long to see you & my Dear
Sam Our joy[fJul Salutes to all the Cousins & Love to you both I am
My Dear
Your truly loving
Mother
E Tucker"	Elizabeth and her adult children, 1716-1733	ENGLISH	199				1716	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA JEAKE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	1695	1680-1720	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	28	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA JEAKE"""
j_293	ESRO FRE 5388	[293] Elizabeth Tucker to Barbara Jeake, 27 June 1716. Original letter.	306	Elisa Jeake		"& your tenderly Loving Mother
Dear Father sends his with my service to the Family where you are & to
Mr Vandykes as well & your Dear Brother & self, take our Love with Jo &
Phils. Mrs Cook tells me Bab has the measles full but knows not how the news
came to Mr Bird who says Dr Woodward has been with her."	"Rye June the 27"" 1719"				"Rye June the 27"" 1719
I am sorry my Dear Bab I cannot send word Father is better I yesterday had
hopes he was but this day he is again very ill the pain in his bones a soreness
in his breast & sick in his stomach no appetite since he came home & no good
tast in any thing he takes I am inexpressibly uneasie know not what to do his
spirits are excessivly dull & down for the three last nights he has I bless the
Lord enjoyed pretty good rest & since his coming home has brought away
abundance of Phlegm by spit chiefly Though at the beginning of the week he
cast twice & [words lost] of that kind away. I long for thy coming home & thy
Brothers [words lost] in a sorrowful state as you well can guess the Lord in
mercy [words lost] as I wish I had a sample of that sope to try it & then if we
[words lost] could send afterwards knowing where & to whom call for my
great scizers at Mr Davis's going over the Bridge Father left [words lost] I have
nothing to say of Hats for this summer If it please the Almighty to restore the
Health of my Dear Husband & bring my Dear Children safe & grant us all
our health I shall think my self [words lost] happy Father was [word illegible]
that did not send the Trunk Miss Pigram is much disappointed mary Sisly
lesires you to know her silver buttons for her sleeves forget not to send
athers shoes in the old Box with what other things you think fit by sea And
Fail not to send the Trunk into the Carrier by Wednesday evening fail not to
send Mrs Pigrams linings & Mrs Dixon's things either in or out of the Trunk
as you can fit it but be sure carefully put up I am my Dear, your Dear Brothers
& your tenderly Loving Mother
Elisa Jeake

Dear Father sends his with my service to the Family where you are & to
Mr Vandykes as well & your Dear Brother & self, take our Love with Jo &
Phils. Mrs Cook tells me Bab has the measles full but knows not how the news
came to Mr Bird who says Dr Woodward has been with her."	Elizabeth and her adult children, 1716-1733	ENGLISH	397				1716	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA JEAKE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	1695	1680-1720	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	28	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA JEAKE"""
j_294	ESRO FRE 5389	[294] Elizabeth Tucker to Samuel Jeake II, 10 March 1725. Original letter.	306	E Tucker		"Your truly Loving
Mother"	"Rye March the 10"" 1725"				"Rye March the 10"" 1725
I am sorry Dear Sam the Town has so many charms that Business & Relations
may all be sacrificed to its allurments I persuade my self real advantage has
not employ'd one half of the time you have now spent in that bewitching
place it entirely bereaves you of your sence of every thing for neither can you
afford to write to your absent Friends but very sparingly & then take no
notice of answering what they write concerning when you promised your
Father so positively you would be back to be present at the Commission I
really depended on your word but there is no such thing to be looked for when
London is in the case if you wou'd but consider the extravagancy of your
expenses & consider the rest of mankind that are worth taking Notice of it
would put you in a better method. I despair any remonstrances of mine will
ever have any effect on you. Your Father is very ill had a most terrible night
the last he puff and is much out of order. I am very much troubled to see how
far short my son falls of that assiduous care your Friend here expresses for his
Relations I wrote to you concerning my watch & your sister Your Father
desired you to leave £75 in Mr Slade's hands but you take no notice o
thing, no more than of what your sister wrote in Mr Proctor's Letter if tea
wou'd appear on paper I have stock enough to write this & much more you
are not expressive enough to let us know what you mean by Mr MacEven's
account there is 2 Guineas for the Lace & two mounts of Fans & one entire
Fan the price of these I never know. Yesterday Mr Lamb called & swore Mr
Carleton the Freeman but Davis & Horsfield are not come on the Bench Mr
Lamb tells Proctor he has no Authority to Administer an Oath nor should he
have opened his Cask. You send word of 15 Tickets you have provided without
saying who are to be proprietors your Towns Duties & all goes to wrack

Mr Button is quite tired for no Body now you are absent takes any care i

either you Mr Slade or Capt Pigram will please to pay £7 10s to Mr Fergusoi

& take a Receipt in full for your Father & Mr Button. The Money shall be
paid at your return they have [words illegible] to drink his Health. Your Father
bid me tell you the Commission is adjourned to Thursday next & if you do
not appear a lot there are none of your Friends will ever trouble themselves
any further nor have any dependence on you. Pray Buy some SpfiriJt of Sal
Armoniac.""* Farewel my Sam, think for 'tis true we all Love you but none
more Ardently than

Your truly Loving
Mother
E Tucker"	Elizabeth and her adult children, 1716-1733	ENGLISH	496				1725	ELIZABETH JEAKE	SAMUEL JEAKE III	FEMALE	MALE	1667	1640-1680	1697	1680-1720	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	30	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""SAMUEL JEAKE III"""
j_295	ESRO FRE 5390	[295] Elizabeth Tucker to Barbara Jeake, 3 September 1728. Original letter.	307	E. Tucker		"Your Truly Loving Mother
Fathers & my love to all our Dear Children with service to Mrs Beeching,
Capt Pigram & the rest of our friends. Capt Pigrams Harness is bought, his
other commands shall be obeyed."		Sept the 3 1728		*Sal Armoniac was used in dyeing and medicine: DTGC, 'Saddle band - Sal volatile'.	"Every Epistle I receive from Rye is acceptable to me nor can I ever be tired
with the length of any that comes from my Dear Barbara I bless God the
weather has been very favourable since we have been here I yesterday
attempted to see Mrs Mead but she was gone to Sun Court Miss Mead is yet
at Bristol where the Capt's station is continued. Mr & Mrs Shortis I have seen
once they Lodge on Ludgate Hill near the Bell Savage. The side saddle is
bespoke but requires so much time to make the Hoy must return without it
this time the young Ladies send their service to you all I am sorry your Brother
did not go to Bro: Blackmore. I believe I shall not be less glad to see my Dear
Children if it please God to Bless me then they will be to see their Mother. On
Thursday we purpose to go to Battersy wou'd have Dick set out from Rye
munday next which will be the ninth instant; If the weather & other things
concure we intend for Lewes Wednesday after Dick's arrival. Send by him two
of the Double Diapre affairs you put in your portmanteau & [word illegible]
Bottle. Ican send you no account of Spinnet yet Chocolate is five shillings per
lb & like to be dearer I shall wean my self from that nor do I think it so good
as what I had in 1726. I hope my Dear Children will take care of themselves
& keep good hours & may the Almighty Bless & keep you all from every
danger is the constant prayer of my Dear Barbara

Your Truly Loving Mother

E. Tucker

Sept the 3 1728

Fathers & my love to all our Dear Children with service to Mrs Beeching,
Capt Pigram & the rest of our friends. Capt Pigrams Harness is bought, his
other commands shall be obeyed."	Elizabeth and her adult children, 1716-1733	ENGLISH	324				1728	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA JEAKE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	1695	1680-1720	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	28	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA JEAKE"""
j_296	ESRO FRE 5391	[296] Elizabeth Tucker to Barbara Jeake, 24 July 1733. Original letter.	308	E Tucker		"Your truly loving
Mother
Post paid 3d"		"July the 24"" 1733"			"By Father I am deputed to answer my Dear Barbara's Epistle that coming
first in course we all rejoyce in the account we have of our Girles good Health
and satisfaction by which hint hope your self & sister are free from those
inconveniencies you have been incident to when in Town. The Hoy is not yet
arrived so can give no account of the receipt of what you sent your Father &
I are glad our Children have not in the midst of various diversions forgot
their parents. Capt Pigram (says for no body else says any thing about 'em
tho' miss Jeny promised long agoe). They [word struck out] ought to be dyed
Black since there is no other colour they will take I have not seen Mrs nor
Miss Beeching since last week suppose by your sisters the silk did not come
but do not know. Mr Harrison appointed yesterday to be here but sent his
Man suppose he is come to day or not far behind. Mr Wicks of Romney
would have two or three lb of three penny worsted of Mrs Green's mens
colour and Blew he would be glad to settle a correspondence with her upon
the foot of selling again if she can give him any encouragement. I believe he
will be a very honest Chap. Brother Tucker purposes if the disappointment
happen to meet Cousin Slade at the Race Shall take care to send per Hoy now
I have the Keys the things sister mentions. I here Mrs Pigram the Mother was
very Fine on the Lords day Miss Jeny and she having been at Tenterden to be
Equipt I do not call to mind any News but that Mary Curd is to be married
at Michaelmas Spouse Elect has given warning tis the mans son that sold you
Damsins as he call'd them. Your Bro Jeake goes to Morrow to Tenterden to
Mr Ed: Mullins for four or five days. Mrs Beeching is just come in & sends her
service as do so many others every body you can think of. Mr & Mrs Lambs
miss went to Tunbridge Wells Munday return Thursday. Am sorry the Spinet
is out of your reach. Pray see Mrs Shortis I am which our joynt salutations to
the Family & all Friends with Tender Love to our Dear Girles. I am my Dear
Barbara

Your truly loving

Mother

E Tucker

July the 24"" 1733

To Mrs Barbara Jeake at Mr Slade's the Corner of St Thomas, Southwark
Post paid 3d"	Elizabeth and her adult children, 1716-1733	ENGLISH	425	Barbara	To Mrs Barbara Jeake at Mr Slade’s the Corner of St Thomas, Southwark		1733	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA JEAKE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	1695	1680-1720	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	28	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA JEAKE"""
j_297	ESRO FRE 5392	[297] Elizabeth Tucker to Barbara Jeake, 31 May 1733. Original letter.	309	E Tucker		"Dear Barbara of your loving
Mother
Service to all the Family
The clock just strikes eight don't forget a quarter of a pound of tenpeny thred
we shall be out.
Post paid 3d"		May the 31* 1733			"I write this my Dear Barbara much unprepared being told Mr Manooch's just
setting out I was willing to let you hear from us I suppose the Hoy sailed last
night whether I forgot anything material in the paper seal amongst the things
that was done pretty much on the sudden there is two Boxes one for Candles
let there be three dozen of good working lights that will give good light you
may remember the last winters lights were of little use for that the size we
ought to have you must enquire of the person you have them of we have
mould Candles sufficient for the table & company let there be of long fourteens
& sixteen to make up the Box. Capt Pigram has been at New Haven but
not at Litton hears they are very fond of one another 'tis to be hoped he will
always avoid telling Lyes since in his Courtship he was so cautious the
Husband will doubtless speake plain English truth the children are all dead
they have had much company. The present I saw was a small low built Gold
Watch with a chased case but the story I could not tell twas a Lady siting in a
Chair of State & two military men approaching her in Armour Generals to
be sure the Top of the Hook Europas Flight on the Bull. Mrs Beeching said
he said he had or would send for a Chair or Chaise she cou'd not tell which
both were named att different times & I forgot to ask again. Your Father
complains this morning of a pain in his Bones. I would be glad you would let
me know what how many grains of Rhubarb I used to take for I must increase
the dose. Mrs Norton miss & Miss Betty were here on Wednesday & Mrs
Buttenville Mrs Weedon all send their service to you both as does your Father
& Brother theirs with that my

Dear Barbara of your loving

Mother

E Tucker

May the 31* 1733

Service to all the Family
The clock just strikes eight don't forget a quarter of a pound of tenpeny thred
we shall be out.

To Mrs Barbara Jeake at Mr Slades the Corner of St Thomas Southwarke,
these
Post paid 3d"	Elizabeth and her adult children, 1716-1733	ENGLISH	385		"To Mrs Barbara Jeake at Mr Slades the Corner of St Thomas Southwarke,
these"		1733	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA JEAKE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	1695	1680-1720	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	28	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA JEAKE"""
j_298	ESRO FRE 5393	[298] Elizabeth Tucker to Barbara Jeake, 8 September 1733. Original letter.	310	E Tucker		"My Dear Barbara
Your truly lo:
Mother
Mrs Page has a Quartan Ague
Post paid 3d"		Sept. the 8th 1733		"OED, flintglass,
n. 1. A pure lustrous glass, originally made with ground flint or pebble as the
siliceous ingredient."	"I have had the misfortune Dear Child to break your China Boat I desire you
to buy another you know twas a burntin one buy also two Mops such as are
us'd in the Family where you are Mr Knapton said would so suppose he has
sent the Number of Rapin which was wanting you give me no account what
Broken Flint Glass"" will yield per lb. As you say Cousins & you think the
Irish Cloth worth the money you may buy it Susan has been very ill but is I
thank God got well again your Brother tells me Mr Norton of Rye goes to
London next week with his two Bat Daughters who I suppose you will see.
Rye affords but little news & my memory is so bad I can't remember whether
I give you the occurrences of the Town or not. Father came not from Tenterden
till yesterday the weather was so windy & rainy he could not dispatch his
business. The carrying roads are very bad what a Black berry summer may
do towards mending them we cannot tell.

Mr Frewen told me of something your sister desir'd to be sent but he
cou'd not make out if there is any thing unsent she woud have she must
explain it her self hope now the heat abates. Phil's"" Enemies have made a
Truce with her we have no Buggs at Rye. You Exceused your Blunders because
twas almost dark I must mine since I write by Candle which is to me a very
imperfect light. I am sorry the shortness of the days obliges us to so much of
that kind. Fathers & Mothers Love to you and Phil with service to Cousins in
General & particular with service to Friends as you think proper closes the
scene without farther addition than that I am

My Dear Barbara
Your truly lo:
Mother

E Tucker

Sept. the 8th 1733

Mrs Page has a Quartan Ague

To Mrs Barbara Jeake at Mr Slades the Corner of St Thomas Southwarke,
these

Post paid 3d"	Elizabeth and her adult children, 1716-1733	ENGLISH	347		"To Mrs Barbara Jeake at Mr Slades the Corner of St Thomas Southwarke,
these"		1733	ELIZABETH JEAKE	BARBARA JEAKE	FEMALE	FEMALE	1667	1640-1680	1695	1680-1720	FAMILY	TRUE	FALSE	TRUE	FALSE	28	TRUE	"""ELIZABETH JEAKE"", ""BARBARA JEAKE"""
j_299		[299] Will of Joseph Tucker TNA, PROB 11/662/135	311							"* OED, blackberry summer, n. Eng. Regional, a warm period in late September and early
October.
Philadelphia Tucker, only daughter of Elizabeth and Joseph Tucker.
""Possibly Blackwood or Blackmore."		The death of Joseph Tucker, November 1733	ENGLISH																					
j_300		[300] Will of Elizabeth Tucker TNA, PROB 11/678/209	313							"*'A shallow bowl.
* A verse, probably inscribed on the inside of the ring.
*The date of Elizabeth and Joseph's marriage."		The death of Elizabeth Tucker, July 1736	ENGLISH																					